




                           NICKEL BOYS




                          Screenplay by

                   RaMell Ross & Joslyn Barnes


                      Based on the novel by
           
                        Colson Whitehead




WHITE Production Draft
Date 04.30.2023



1    OMITTED                                                       1


2    OMITTED                                                       2


2A   EXT. CURTIS HOME - YARD - FRENCHTOWN FL    - 1958 - DAY (D1) 2A

     ELWOOD (6-8ish) POV of the midday sky where the moon is
     visible against its blue hue. The underside of a lemon tree
     with lemons is also in view.

                         EVELYN (O.S.)
                   (calling out)
               Elwood? Elwood! (louder) El!

     He tilts his head toward the house, his arm outstretched in
     the same direction in the unruly tropical backyard of the
     family house.

                         HATTIE (O.S.)
               He's out back, looking like he fell
               out.


3    INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1958 - NIGHT (N2)            3

     SOUND of music playing.

     ELWOOD's POV from where he's sitting on his   mother's lap, is
     concentrated on a drop of condensation on a   can of beer on
     the table before him. Lights reflect on and   off the aluminum.
     A party is winding down. Cigarette butts in   the ashtray.

     His mother EVELYN (late 20s, slim, tired eyes) and his father
     PERCY (30s, fit and restless) play gin rummy with friends. A
     couple in the background is swaying in a boozy slow dance.

     The dew drop begins to slide down the side of the beer can.

     Percy throws a discarded card face down.

                         PERCY
               Knock knock.

     He splays his hand on the table. Picks up the can of beer.
     Evelyn's unmatched cards are of equal value to his, she
     starts discarding them.

                         PERCY (CONT'D)
               Just gonna lay `em all off?

     He sets down the now empty can.


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                               2.
3   CONTINUED:                                                   3

                           ANOTHER ADULT VOICE (O.S.)
                 She undercut ya.

                           PERCY
                 You ain't lying. Damn Ev.

                           EVELYN (O.S.)
                 Gin is gin... you know Percy can't
                 count and drink at the same time.

    Some chuckling from people O.S.

                           PERCY
                     (yawning)
                 Just go `head and deal 'em.

    His large hand slams down on the beer can, crushing it.
    Elwood's gaze jolts a little but holds on the can in its new
    form, then turns to look at Evelyn's hand, nails done but
    worn down, gripping a tumbler glass, swirling whiskey into a
    whirlpool at the bottom.

    Someone sweeps up the cards and shuffles the deck.

                           EVELYN (O.S.)
                     (chuckles)
                 You too tiiired Percy, after this
                 next loss I'ma have to hear your
                 mouth all the way to Cali.

                           PERCY
                 She know she ain't even driving,
                 already complaining about
                 somethin'. What you need to do is
                 put that boy to bed.

    An older woman's hands start to tidy up and collect glasses.

                             EVELYN
                 What you   need to do is mind your
                 business   and get what's coming to
                 ya. I'll   clear it, Mama. Elwood,
                 get down   now.

    Elwood gets down. Evelyn sets the tumbler on the table and
    starts to follows his grandmother HATTIE (50s, a hummingbird)
    out of the room.

                            PERCY (O.S.)
                     (as she passes out the
                      door)
                 Come back and help me win, Evelyn.
                 You hear?



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                3.
3   CONTINUED: (2)                                                3

    The women's voices can be faintly heard from the kitchen.

                        EVELYN (O.S.)
              I said I'd do the washing up, Mama.

                        HATTIE (O.S.)
              At least tell the child you're
              leaving.


4   INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1958 - NIGHT (N3)            4

    SOUND of Christmas music on a radio in the background. It's
    Christmas Eve.

    ELWOOD POV from where he's lying on the floor, on a
    threadbare patterned carpet, looking up through the branches
    of a small spruce pine, moving to get a good view of Hattie.
    She hums along to "Santa Claus is Comin' to Town", having
    noticed that Elwood is watching her.

                        HATTIE
                  (humming)
              He knows if you've been bad or
              good, so be good for goodness sake-

    She `accidentally' drops an ornament ball that falls through
    the branches and toward the POV. It just misses Elwood.

                        ELWOOD
                  (startled)
              Nanna!

    Hattie looks down and smiles and keeps humming.

                        HATTIE
                  (humming)
              ...you better not cry, you better
              not pout, I'm tellin' you why..

    SOUND of her humming continues...


5   INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1958 - DAY (D4)              5

    ...until overtaken by the SOUND of a roller coaster ride,
    children exclaiming. It's an ad on the radio for the
    "FunTown" amusement park.

                        RADIO AD (O.S.)
              This holiday season, try the Crazy
              Daisy! Strap into the Atomic Rocket
              for a Trip to the Moon!
                        (MORE)


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                4.
5   CONTINUED:                                                    5
                           RADIO AD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                 Try your putting skills against Dad
                 at Goofy Golf! A straight-As report
                 card gets you in free, to Funtown!

    Elwood POV, blurred, up close to black skin, his gaze pulling
    back a bit and focusing on the subtle pulsing of a blood
    vessel in Hattie's neck. She is looking off to the left and
    light softly outlines her cheek bone.


6   OMITTED                                                       6


7   EXT. PARK PLAYGROUND - TALAHASSEE FL - 1958 - DAY (D5)        7

    ELWOOD POV from under a jungle gym in the park playground, on
    a GIRL (10) above, sticking her tongue way out and holding it
    there. OTHER KIDS, 5 or 6 of them, dart around playing tag.

    She turns and looks down at him. Her eyes widen, then she
    turns back.

    Elwood looks left toward the girl and then right toward a BOY
    (8) who holds open a loop on a dangling string. She paws it
    away playfully, then sticks out her tongue again.

    He gently places the loop around the girl's tongue, and pulls
    it tight without hurting her. Elwood watches the boy then
    stick his tongue out and place a loop on the other end of the
    string around his own tongue, bringing his face and the
    girl's within a few inches of each other, tied together.

    After a beat, Elwood turns in the direction of the boy,
    panning quickly across the boy's face- and then Elwood is up
    and running off into the brighter light of the playground.


8   INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN - HOTEL RICHMOND - TALLAHASSEE -      8
    1958 - DAY (D6)

    Elwood POV from where he's seated on a stool in a   hotel
    kitchen that overlooks the dining room, reading a   Hardy Boys
    mystery. SOUND of staff clanking around, pots and   pans,
    cutlery, voices as the breakfast shift winds down   and they
    prep for lunch.

                           PREP COOK (O.S.)
                 Got to always look for the pearl.

    Elwood looks over the top of the book, toward an older man, a
    PREP COOK (60s) sitting at the counter shucking oysters in a
    big bucket of ice.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                 5.
8    CONTINUED:                                                    8

     With weathered, scarred hands, he inserts the knife tip into
     the hinge of the oyster, and with a quick twist, opens it,
     then shucks the oyster's foot from the shell. He peeks under
     it (no pearl) then proffers it to Elwood.

     Elwood leans back away from the oyster.

                            PREP COOK (CONT'D)
                  What? You don't want it? You ever
                  try an oyster? No?

     Nearby a lanky DISH WASHER (20s) is rinsing and drying.

                            PREP COOK (CONT'D)
                      (to dish washer; still
                       holding the oyster)
                  This boy never ate an oyster.

     The dish washer turns and snatches it from the Prep Cook.

                            PREP COOK (CONT'D)
                      (good-humoredly)
                  Boyyy!

     SOUND of a glass breaking somewhere. Elwood looks out into
     the dining room where there are several tables, one with a
     white family, and one with a white couple finishing
     breakfast.

                            PREP COOK (CONT'D)
                      (slurping down an oyster
                       himself)
                  Mmmhmh! Bet he never ate something
                  else neither. Taste like last
                  night.

     The men chuckle.

     Elwood sees Hattie in the dining room in her hotel uniform,
     coming up from behind a table, placing large pieces of broken
     glass on a tray, then picking up a broom and sweeping the
     rug, a rug with the same pattern as the one in her living
     room at home.

     Elwood returns his gaze to the Prep Cook who struggles with
     an unyielding oyster, and then slides it to the side.


8A   INT. HOTEL ROOM - RICHMOND HOTEL - 1958 - DAY (D7)           8A

     Elwood POV from where he's lying on a hotel bed as a fresh
     white bedsheet is tossed in the air above and over him onto
     the bed.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                6.
8A   CONTINUED:                                                  8A

     Hattie (O.S.) hums as she goes around the bed tucking it in
     with Elwood beneath it. It grows tauter and tauter around
     him. Elwood stifles a giggle.

     A heavier blanket or comforter is thrown over the sheet.
     Elwood giggles in the dark.

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                      (playing)
                  Hmm. Coulda sworn I heard... Must
                  be mice.


9    INT. CURTIS HOME - HATTIE'S BEDROOM - 1958 - NIGHT (N8)       9

     Elwood POV as he pads down the dark upstairs hallway, turning
     a corner and peeking through the slit of the door and frame
     to Hattie's bedroom, slowly pushing it open.

     He watches Hattie while she sleeps, drawing closer,
     fascinated by the shiny tip of a machete blade showing from
     under the top rear of her pillow. Elwood inches closer and
     closer. He seems to be checking her breathing.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                      (softly)
                  Nanna. (pause) Nanna. (pause, more
                  loudly) Harriet!

     Hattie springs awake in fear, yanking the big machete blade
     from under the pillow.

     Elwood jolts and retreats, but his gaze remains fixed on
     Hattie as she sits upright on the bed.

     Hattie realizes it's Elwood. Falls back, relieved.

                            HATTIE
                  El...

     She puts the machete down, pulls him into her arms.

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  Shhh... I ain't going nowhere,
                  baby.


10   OMITTED                                                     10
                                                               7.


10A   INT. LAUNDRY ROOM - HOTEL RICHMOND - 1958 - DAY (D9)     10A

      Elwood POV of Hattie's strong hand steering an iron across
      the wrinkles in a cotton hotel pillowcase on an ironing board
      in the laundry room. Hotel towels and sheets are drying on
      lines and a large linen cart is already filled with pressed
      sheets.

      As the steaming iron slowly passes back and forth across his
      gaze, Elwood is revealed in the reflection of the chrome
      base.


11    INT. CURTIS HOME - HALLWAY/BA THROOM - 1958 - EVENING (E9) 11

      Elwood POV as he turns the corner in the hallway, drawn to
      the glow of yellow light from the slit of the nearly shut
      door of the bathroom.

      He stands at the doorway and looks at Hattie submerged in a
      hot bath, leaning back relaxing with her face covered by a
      wet rag. His gaze pans to rest on the two islands of her
      upright knees in the milky, soapy water of the tub. They're
      worn from years of scrubbing floors. He looks back at her
      face covered with a wet rag, then back to her knees.

      She makes a happy SIGH.   A knee sinks into the water.

      Elwood turns to leave, careful not to disturb her, his gaze
      slowly rotating to the right and out the door.


12    EXT. TALLAHASSEE STREET - SIDEWALK - 1965 - DAY (D10)        12

      Elwood (POV) up at a store window full of stacked TVs just as
      the screens go blank to static, zap to a bar that stretches
      out then bounces back to a dot on each before going dark.

      SOUND of the busy street and voices of women on the sidewalk
      behind Elwood.

                          WOMAN 1 (O.S.)
                    (teasing, impressed)
                Hattie, don't you look "mod"!

                          WOMAN 2 (O.S.)
                Nobody gon' call her grandma!

      SOUND of the women chuckling.

                          WOMAN 1 (O.S.)
                Still, I'd be glad to have a
                grandson carry my shopping.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                8.
12   CONTINUED:                                                  12

     A BLACK EMPLOYEE is visible tinkering behind the TVs through
     the window, trying to fix the outage.

                            WOMAN 2 (O.S.)
                  How'd you raise such a fine boy
                  Hattie?

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                  Elwood didn't need much rightin'.
                  Spends more time reading than
                  anything else...

                            WOMAN 1 (O.S.)
                  You hear what they did in Selma?

     Rack focus of POV and Elwood (11-13ish) is reflected in the
     window holding his grandmother's shopping. To the right
     Hattie is reflected with two local WOMEN (60s, full-figured).

                            WOMAN 2 (O.S.)
                  Mr. Parker tellin' us not to talk
                  about political things on the
                  clock. Said `that don't got nothing
                  to do with you all.'

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                  Hell if it don't.

     The TVs suddenly light back up. On a screen at the center,
     REVEREND DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. is giving a speech to a
     large crowd from the State Capitol of Montgomery, AL. On the
     other TVs, images of Black joy, (archival) home movie footage
     of children living their lives with their families. The AUDIO
     comes in and out, something is still wrong with it.

                            DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
                  ...I know you are asking today,
                  "How long will it take?" (Speak,
                  sir)... Somebody's asking, "When
                  will wounded justice...

                            WOMAN 1 (O.S.)
                  Long as we working I don't see how
                  it makes a difference.

                            WOMAN 2 (O.S.)
                  We work hard, too.

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                  Jim Crow ain't going to just slink
                  off his wicked self.

     In the window reflection, more Black people are visible
     walking up to watch the display.


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                9.
12   CONTINUED: (2)                                              12

                         DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
               ...Somebody's asking, "When will
               the radiant star of hope be plunged
               against the nocturnal bosom of this
               lonely night, (Speak, speak, speak)
               plucked from weary souls with
               chains of fear and the manacles of
               death?

     Through the store window, Elwood sees the WHITE STORE OWNER
     come running out of the back room, having noticed what's
     going on. He starts yelling at the Black employee, who then
     starts pulling out the plugs of the TVs. As the speech
     continues, one by one, the TVs zap off.

                         DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. (CONT'D)
               ...(Yes, sir) How long? Not long,
               (Yes, sir) because no lie can live
               forever. (Yes, sir) How long? Not
               long, (All right. How long?)
               because-

     White hands at the edge of the window are hurriedly pulling
     the cords that bring the curtains together across the window.
     Elwood's reflection comes back into focus, Hattie now
     standing beside him, stylish and very put-together.


13   INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1965 - DAY (D11)           13

     Elwood POV standing in the living room, looking at his arm
     stretched out in front of him. He watches intently as his
     skin rises into goose pimples, the hairs at attention... then
     they recede and the hairs go flat. Elwood adjusts his arm to
     find the best angle for the show.


14   OMITTED                                                     14


15   INT. FRENCHTOWN STREET - CITY BUS - 1966 - DAY (D12)        15

     Elwood (15ish) POV from where he is seated in a city bus: his
     reflection is visible in half of the window frame as he leans
     his head against the glass, now a teen.

     Through the window, the city sidewalk moves from left to
     right. As the bus stops at a traffic light, Elwood lifts his
     head, and turns to look out the window. His reflection
     disappears and he focuses on THREE BLACK TEENAGE BOYS walking
     merrily down the sidewalk. An OLDER WHITE COUPLE are walking
     in the opposite direction.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                              10.
15   CONTINUED:                                                 15

     When they are about ten feet from each other, the boys hop
     off the sidewalk, letting the white couple pass. They hop
     back on the sidewalk after, as if this is totally routine.

     Elwood looks backward toward the white couple walking on, as
     the bus continues down the road.


16   INT. MARCONI'S TOBACCO - FRENCHTOWN - 1966 - DAY (D13)       16

     Sound of a radio playing in the background. Elwood POV from
     where he is standing by the magazine racks in Marconi's
     Tobacco Shop, reading a comic.

     Up front, MR. MARCONI (50s, Italian) banters with his WIFE
     who is somewhere O.S. in the back, as he arranges his stock
     of cigars. The shop is otherwise simple, penny candies,
     newspapers, dry goods.

                            MRS. MARCONI (O.S.)
                  Again with the cigar boxes, Mr.
                  Marconi?

                            MR. MARCONI (O.S.)
                  Cuban puros are embargoed, Mrs.
                  Marconi, I have to do something to
                  attract the eye. (approaching
                  Elwood) Besides, order and
                  packaging is important, it excites
                  the happy part of the human brain.
                  (to Elwood) Doesn't it?

     Elwood turns to take in Mr. Marconi (squat, with a low
     pompadour and thin mustache) standing beside him.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Sir?

                            MR. MARCONI
                  Why you read through all of them
                  like that, if you're going to buy
                  them anyway?

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Just making sure.

     Marconi studies him a beat.

                            MR. MARCONI
                  You need a job?

     Elwood closes the Journey into Mystery that he's reading.
                                                                11.


17   INT. LINCOLN H.S. CLASSROOM - TALLAHASSEE (1966) - DAY       17
     (D14)

     Elwood POV of a few used, scattered pencils on the floor near
     his desk. It's the first day of the semester and a new
     teacher, MR. HILL, (late 20s, kind face above a bow tie, scar
     over an eye), walks the aisles, handing out black markers.

                         MR. HILL
               The first order of business in my
               class will be to strike out all the
               bad words they left for you.

     Beat.

                         MR. HILL (CONT'D)
               September is the tutorial in the
               latest epithets of white youth,
               which like hemlines and haircuts
               vary from year to year, and are
               quite imaginative.

     SOUND of a ruffling.

     Elwood turns to the right, looking past the person sitting
     next to him, over to the textbook of his neighbor's neighbor,
     a BOY who is RUFFLING the edges of a second-hand text book
     from the white high school. A series of crude flip-book
     drawings animate a lynching: a stick figure with a black face
     is being lifted by two other stick figures into a noose. The
     boy ruffles it three times, then stops.

                         STUDENT (O.S.)
               Mr. Hill, you a Freedom Rider?

     Elwood looks at Mr. Hill.

                            MR. HILL
               Yes, I am.

                         STUDENT (O.S.)
               That how you got that scar over
               your eye?

     Mr. Hill suddenly leans in- right in front of Elwood- to
     speak to the student who asked, the scar visible in CU.
     Elwood instinctively shudders backward.

                         MR. HILL
               Nashville. White man slugged me
               with a tire iron.




                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                               12.
17    CONTINUED:                                                 17

      As he withdraws, he hands Elwood a black marker. Elwood
      watches Mr. Hill walk back to the front of the class, before
      looking down at the book before him: American History.


18    OMITTED                                                    18


18A   INT. CITY BUS - FRENCHTOWN - 1966 - DAY (D15)             18A

      Elwood POV seated in the city bus, Hattie (O.S.) beside him,
      reading the Selected Poems of Gwendolyn Brooks. As Hattie's
      hand turns a page, Elwood sees a LITTLE GIRL slide herself
      feet first from under their seat forward into the space
      between his own shoes, all the way until her face is visible.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Well, hello. Where'd you come from?

      She smiles up at Elwood then starts sliding backward the way
      she came.

      Elwood bends all the way forward and looks under his seat,
      watching the kid slide backwards under other seats, past the
      legs and shoes of passengers toward the back of the bus.


19    INT. MARCONI'S TOBACCO SHOP - 1966 - DAY (D16)             19

      Elwood POV from a stool in Marconi's shop, as he looks up to
      see TWO WOMEN (30s, one Black, one white in curlers) browsing
      the single small aisle. Both are magnificently dressed in big-
      patterned dresses.

      The white woman is closer to him and the Black woman is a bit
      further. They both lean in to take items on opposite sides of
      the aisle, creating a balletic synchronization. Both pause
      for a moment before returning to their upright browsing
      positions and moving on.


20    INT. CURTIS HOME - ELWOOD'S BEDROOM - 1966 - DAY (D17)     20

      Elwood POV as he raises his left arm, rotating his shoulder,
      attempting to get the best angle to see the hair follicles
      stretching from out of his armpit.

      His hand twists and pulls this newly discovered hair, then he
      moves in close to sniff his armpit, the image blurring. Then
      he leans back and reaches for another twist of the new hair
      under his arm.
                                                             13.


21   EXT. FRENCHTOWN STREET - 1966 - DAY (D18)                 21

     Elwood POV on the curb of a street near Marconi's, waiting at
     a crosswalk for the light to change. He is looking down at
     the untied shoelaces of a LITTLE GIRL in a school dress, who
     is holding her MOTHER'S hand ahead of him. The bottom fabric
     of the little girl's dress is blowing in the wind.

     As they start walking across the street, Elwood's shifts to
     an older GIRL, SIMONE, who walks on the other side of her
     sister. She's also wearing a dress and his gaze moves from
     her backside up to the back of her head.

     As Elwood crosses the street behind them, the family walks
     faster than he does and pulls away. The older girl looks back
     over her shoulder, meeting Elwood's gaze, smiling
     flirtatiously at him.


22   INT. MARCONI'S TOBACCO SHOP - 1966 - DAY (D19)            22

     Elwood POV from a short step-ladder near the magazine rack.
     He is popping his knuckles and stretching his fingers,
     rotating his wrist and flexing his hand while looking at the
     darkly grooved life lines in his palm.

     On his lap is a pile of magazines. On top, LIFE magazine with
     young people his age on the cover, young men's ties straight
     black arrows in the whirl of violence. The curves of the
     women's perfect hairdos float against the squares of the
     protest signs. Open above them, his current preoccupation, is
     a Marvel comic book, Silver Surfer. He picks it back up and
     begins to read just as the bells above the door jingle and
     someone enters.

     Elwood looks up to see Mr. Hill having a word with Mr.
     Marconi. Elwood watches as Mr. Hill approaches with a smile
     on his face, no bow-tie, plaid shirt open on his undershirt,
     hip sunglasses.

                         MR. HILL
               Hi Elwood. I came to see you.
               (beat) Don't worry, good news.
               You know the colored college just
               south of Tallahassee- Melvin Griggs
               Technical School? They've just
               opened courses to high-achieving
               high school students. I thought of
               you right off the bat.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               That sounds great, Mr. Hill. But I
               don't know if we have the money for
               classes like that.


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                              14.
22    CONTINUED:                                                22

                             MR. HILL
                   That's the thing- they're free.

      He hands Elwood a PAMPHLET from the college.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (looking at it)
                   They are?

                             MR. HILL
                   This fall at least, so word gets
                   out in the community.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (with barely contained
                        excitement)
                   I'll have to ask my grandmother-

                             MR. HILL
                   You do that, Elwood. And I can talk
                   to her, too if need be. Main thing
                   is, it's perfect for a young man
                   like you. You're the type of
                   student they came up with this for.

      Elwood watches Mr. Hill walk out the door...

                              MR. HILL (CONT'D)
                       (over his shoulder)
                   Imagine a textbook with nothing to
                   cross out.


22A   EXT. SIDEWALK - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY (D20)           22A

      Elwood POV standing in a line-up of local Black TEEN BOYS
      against a wall along the sidewalk. He looks to his right and
      downward as the rubber tip of a cane taps the right, then
      left, pants pocket of the boy next to the boy next to him.
      Then it pokes into the stomach of the boy next to him.

      Elwood's gaze remains fixed on the cane, moving along it and
      up to the hand and arm of the OLD WHITE MAN holding it, then
      to his face.

      A white POLICE OFFICER is standing at an angle behind him,
      blurred in the background, arms crossed.

      Elwood's gaze focuses on the cop's face before swinging down
      just in time to see the cane pushing into his own stomach.
      Elwood buckles slightly. The old man moves on to the next boy
      and Elwood watches as he presses his cane into stomach after
      stomach down the line.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                               15.
22A   CONTINUED:                                                22A

      On the last boy, Elwood's gaze moves from the stomach to the
      boy's face, across the old man's face and then to the cop,
      who stands there matter of factly, an orange soda pop with a
      straw in it in his hand, as if this were routine. Elwood's
      gaze holds there, as the other boys now scurry off. The cop
      meets his gaze with total ambivalence.


23A   OMITTED                                                   23A


23    INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1966 - DAY (D21)          23

      The curtains are partly pulled. Elwood POV from the couch
      where he's lying looking up at the fan wobble on the ceiling
      as the light from a small black and white television flickers
      in the room. It bounces off a celebratory helium balloon on a
      long string that Elwood is tugging rhythmically to prevent
      contact with the fan blades. He's been at this game awhile.

      SOUND of a NASA space rocket lifting off, with news
      commentary.


24    INT. LINCOLN H.S. - CLASSROOM - 1966 - DAY (D22)           24

      Sound of someone RAPPING their knuckles on a desk, creating a
      rhythm that stops and starts seemingly without warning. The
      bell RINGS. Elwood's POV of his fellow classmates trickling
      into the classroom from recess.

      At the front of the room, Mr. Hill is at a portable record
      player, studying the liner notes on the cover of an LP of Dr.
      King's 1962 Mount Zion speech, while he tries to drop the
      needle on the right place in the speech he wants to play.
      This act spontaneously syncs with the rapping on the desk,
      stopping and starting as Mr. Hill searches the record.

                             MR. HILL
                       (muttering to himself)
                   Side A, groove 3...

      He drops the needle down here and there and Elwood gets just
      fragments of it, as the kids continue to enter, including
      where Dr. King starts to tell the story of his daughter
      longing to visit the amusement park in Atlanta: "Funtown".




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                               16.
24   CONTINUED:                                                  24

                            DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
                      (from the LP recording)
                  We must believe in our souls that
                  we are somebody, that we are
                  significant, that we are worthful,
                  and we must walk the street of life
                  with this sense of dignity and this
                  sense of somebody-ness.

     Suddenly a PENCIL drops from the ceiling right onto the desk
     in front of Elwood. The rapping stops. Mildly startled, he
     looks to the right, where his CLASSMATE, the one rapping,
     looks back in amusement. Elwood looks to the water-stained
     ceiling above his desk, which has a patch of pencils stuck in
     it from being darted upward.

     As students seat themselves in the classroom, Elwood looks to
     the front and finds Mr. Hill looking right at him. He smiles.


25   EXT. SIDEWALK - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY (D22)              25

     Elwood POV at a bus stop, looking across the street at a
     parked Lincoln with a freshly dry-cleaned suit on a hanger
     hung on the outside. Headlights streak across the suit as
     cars go by in different directions, making it dance with the
     breeze they make. Then it returns to rest.


26   OMITTED                                                     26


27   EXT. ABANDONED ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY
                                                               27
     (D23)

     Elwood POV looking down at the interlaced legs of two
     BROTHERS (teenagers) lying perpendicular to each other on the
     floor of a derelict classroom in an abandoned school. They're
     dressed well, wearing ties.

                            OLDER GUY (O.S.)
                  We're breaking the chain reaction
                  of evil.

     Elwood turns and looks at an   OLDER GUY standing beside him.
     He's tall, athletic, wearing   a pressed shirt and a tie now
     loosened in his open collar.   The outline of a slate
     blackboard is visible on the   wall it was pried away from
     years ago.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                              17.
27   CONTINUED:                                                 27

                            OLDER GUY (CONT'D)
                  Some of us went here when we were
                  kids. Before other folks decided to
                  paint our town red.

     Elwood surveys the clusters of young people talking around
     the room. The mood is serious.

     Two people are listening to static-y transistor radio.

                            RADIO NEWS (V.O.)
                  "...so many arrests of Negro
                  students that the Leon County
                  Fairgrounds have become an overflow
                  jail site for the protest that took
                  place today..."

     SOUND of sticks clacking behind Elwood. He turns and sees
     protest placards tossed in a pile on the ground, as more
     people arrive:

     EQUAL TREATMENT UNDER THE LAW

     NON-VIOLENCE IS OUR WATCHWORD

     ARE YOU THE UGLY AMERICAN ?????

     WE SHALL WIN BY LOVE

     The Older Guy waves to some other teenagers trickling in from
     the protest.

                            OLDER GUY
                  Mr. Hill said you might come. We're
                  organizing bail, can we count on
                  you Elwood?

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Uh, yes. I can give half my
                  paycheck.

                            OLDER GUY
                  Glad you felt the need to stand up.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  I'll be back next week.

     He moves off to greet the others. Elwood watches him, his
     gaze drifting to an OLDER GIRL (teen, pretty) in a striped
     sweater. She cocks her head at him approvingly.
                                                                 18.


28    EXT. SIDEWALK - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY (D24)               28

      Elwood POV as he walks down the sidewalk. SOUND of a coin
      being kicked. He stops and sees a gleam a few feet away. He
      walks over, spying a bright copper penny, and bends to pick
      it up. When he notices it's "tails" he hesitates, then picks
      it up anyway. He flips it over, surprised to find the other
      side is tails, too. He turns it over again, and again. Tails.


28A   INT. PHOTO BOOTH - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY                 28A

      Elwood POV seated in a photo booth. He looks down at his lap,
      then looks leftward to his hand resting on his leg. A teen
      girl's hand reaches over and puts her hand on his. They grasp
      each other's hands. Elwood looks up at Simone, the older girl
      who flirted with him on the street, who is smiling at him.
      She leans in for a kiss. FLASH! A photo is taken.

      Elwood POV as Simone, now seated on his lap turns her head
      and looks back over her shoulder at him, gently leaning into
      him. FLASH! A photo is taken.


28B   EXT. PHOTO BOOTH - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY                 28B

      Elwood POV (CLOSE ON) the strip of photos emerging from the
      automated slot just outside the photo booth.


28C   CREATED ARCHIVAL STILLS                                     28C

      Full screen. The series of photos of Elwood and Simone taken
      in the photo booth in various joyful, affectionate poses.


29    INT. CURTIS HOME - KITCHEN - 1966 - DAY (D25)                29

      SOUND of a radio news station in the background.

      Elwood POV at the kitchen table, staring at the Melvin Griggs
      pamphlet hanging from a magnet that is sliding very slowly
      down the front of the fridge.

      To his left he can see Hattie talking to a friend on the
      phone in the adjoining room, her conversation competing
      slightly with the radio.

                          HATTIE
                ...I hope it's a good photograph of
                him at least? I'm not reading The
                Register, they haven't said one
                right thing about these protests.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                               19.
29   CONTINUED:                                                  29

     She's looking at The Register as she speaks. Elwood POV
     remains focused on the pamphlet succumbing to gravity.

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  Has everyone in Leon County gone
                  crazy? Course I'm proud he was
                  there! Evelyn'd be proud, too. You
                  know that theater was showing The
                  Ugly American and Invaders from
                  Mars? Now ain't that something?

     Elwood's gaze slowly leaves the descending pamphlet and tilts
     up to a decorative fridge magnet which doesn't move at all.

     Hattie hangs up the phone.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Nanna, next time I want to do the
                  civil disobedience part.

     She turns and looks at him.

                            HATTIE
                  I love you Elwood.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  I love you, too, Nanna.

                            HATTIE
                  You hungry?

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  No, I'm okay.

     She smiles and crosses into the living room. SOUND of her
     changing the radio station from news to GOSPEL, "I Love the
     Lord, He Heard my Cry".

     The kitchen light flickers a bit.


30   INT. MARCONI'S TOBACCO SHOP - 1966 - DAY (D26)              30

     Sound of a radio in the background.

     Elwood POV from the register in Marconi's. He sees two
     neighborhood boys, TITUS and PERLIE, sliding comics under
     their shirts.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Put it back.

     The boys stiffen, turn, look at him.



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                20.
30   CONTINUED:                                                   30

                            ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      (evenly)
                  Put it back.

     Perlie's expression shifts from shocked to sinister. He
     smiles menacingly and nods with this-ain't-the-end-of-this
     certainty.

     Mr. Marconi comes out, sizes up the situation. He tilts his
     head to indicate "that's enough", to Elwood.

     The boys return the comics to the shelves and leave,
     smoldering as they pass by the register. They slam the door
     on their way out. The bells jingle loudly.

                             MR. MARCONI
                  Look Elwood... kids take a comic or
                  a candy today, their friends and
                  parents spend money in the store
                  for years.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  So... letting them steal is an
                  investment?

                            MR. MARCONI
                  Way I see it. (taps his temple)
                  Immigrant perspective.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Doesn't that diminish all of us?

                            MR. MARCONI
                  Don't take it personal.


31   EXT. SIDEWALK - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - NIGHT (N26)             31

     Elwood POV walking down the sidewalk in the commercial
     district of town, scanning the opposite side of the street.

     He keeps turning to look back over his shoulder, then walks
     backward a beat, then continues turning right, 180 degrees
     then all 360 degrees. Anxious something's going to happen.

     He peers forward and to the left, before recommitting to
     looking across the street to the right.

     Elwood's gaze begins to slowly orient forward, looking up the
     street more and more, as he abruptly comes to a halt. A large
     ALLIGATOR lumbers out from an alleyway, crossing the street
     in the light of a street lamp, which flickers, goes dark,
     then comes back on with a buzzing sound. Elwood watches the
     gator as it lumbers off.
                                                               21.


32   INT. CURTIS HOME - LIVING AREA - 1966 - NIGHT (N26)         32

     Elwood POV lying on the couch, as Hattie moves into view with
     a cloth bag of ice in hand. She peers down at him with a look
     of concern, moving his face from side to side.

                         HATTIE
               Ok...shh now. Hold still. They got
               you good.

     Her jawline tightens, she blinks back a tear, as she puts the
     bag of ice over one of his eyes.

                           ELWOOD (O.S.)
                     (muffled)
               Ow.

     The settling cubes sound like bones.


33   EXT. RURAL ROAD - NEAR TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY - (D27)     33

     Bright sun. Elwood POV walking down a country road, looking
     to hitch a ride. Two vehicles whiz past. As he walks on, he
     continues to glance back, thumb out.

     A battered pickup truck with a giant, oversized cross in the
     back comes into view going the other way, trailing a rope of
     sparks as the weight of the cross forces the tow hitch to
     drag against the asphalt.

     SOUND of some faint music approaching. He turns and sees an
     brilliant emerald `65 Chevy Impala.

     It slows beside him and RODNEY (30s), stylish in a gray and
     purple pinstripe suit, leans toward the window.

                         RODNEY
               Going North.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   (keeping up alongside)
               Yes sir.

                         RODNEY
               Where you headed?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               Melvin Griggs Technical College.

                         RODNEY
               Never heard of that one.

     The car stops, he opens the passenger door.
                                                             22.


34   INT. CHEVY CAR - TALAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY (D27)            34

     The emerald vinyl seats squeak as Elwood slides inside. He
     shakes Elwood's hand, the rings on his fingers biting into
     Elwood's.

     Elwood puts his satchel between his legs and looks over the
     space-age dashboard, all the pushbuttons sticking out of the
     silver detailing. Rodney taps at the radio.

                         RODNEY
               This always gives me trouble. Can
               you find something else?

     Elwood stabs at the buttons, pauses on a Gospel station, then
     decides instead on R&B. Rodney nods.

                         RODNEY (CONT'D)
               Good, good. What's your name?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               Elwood Curtis, sir.

                         RODNEY
               Sir? I like that. You like my
               wheels? Just got `em. Headed up to
               New York to see my lady.

     Elwood keeps his eyes down and periodically looks up through
     the windshield.

                         RODNEY (CONT'D)
               You ain't but what, 15 by the look
               of you? And already a college boy?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               I'm almost 17, sir.

                         RODNEY
               Still and all... young. (whistles)
               You making our race proud, boy.
               When I was your age, I worked at a
               catfish factory.

     The radio plays on. Elwood turns his head and looks out the
     right side window as the landscape passes by. He is partially
     visible in the side mirror.

     Rodney turns up the radio, the deejay rattling off info for a
     Sunday swap meet. Then a "Funtown" commercial comes on and
     Elwood hums along.

                         RODNEY (CONT'D)
               What's this?


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                              23.
34   CONTINUED:                                                 34

     He exhales loudly and curses, running his hand over his conk.
     Elwood can see the red light of a prowl car spinning in the
     sideview mirror.

     Rodney mutters and pulls over. Elwood pulls his satchel up
     onto his lap, unconsciously protecting himself.

                            RODNEY (CONT'D)
                  Don't look back. Keep cool.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Huh?

                            RODNEY
                  You don't know me, do you?

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  No. I mean, we just met.

     The cop car parks a few yards behind them. The WHITE DEPUTY
     (30s) puts his left hand on his holster and walks up. He
     takes off his sunglasses and puts them in his chest pocket.

                            RODNEY
                  I'll tell him that.

     Elwood looks at his feet and begins toying nervously with the
     leather tie on his satchel, wrapping it around his finger.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  What do you mean?

                            RODNEY
                  Shh. Let me handle this.

     Elwood watches as the deputy raps on Rodney's window and
     motions for him to roll it down. Only the deputy's uniform,
     utility belt, and holstered revolver are visible now.

     A meaty white hand reaches in and twists Rodney by the ear,
     pulling him toward the utility belt's buckle.

                            DEPUTY (O.S.)
                  Well looky here. First thing I
                  thought when they said to keep an
                  eye out for an emerald turquoise
                  Impala: only a spook'd steal that.


35   INT. CURTIS HOME - ELWOOD'S BEDROOM - 1966 - DAY (D28)       35

     Elwood POV, his gaze so still with a dead humming silence
     that it feels less like an establishing of an empty room.



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                24.
35   CONTINUED:                                                   35

     His hand comes into view with a tremor, a thin black string
     wound around his ring finger, palm facing him, the rest of
     his fingers curled into a fist. He stretches the ring finger,
     accentuating the tightness of the string. Hattie's voice is
     audible in snatches, from somewhere in the house, on the
     phone.

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                      (on a phone, distraught)
                  I am telling you Sergeant, he
                  didn't know the man. (pause) He was
                  walking. The man pulled up and
                  offered him a ride. He was heading
                  off to college. Melvin Griggs
                  Technical College. (pause) You can
                  call- (interrupted) I have the
                  acceptance letter right-
                  (interrupted). He just got in the
                  wrong car! Why would he- Sergeant,
                  he's smart enough to know that
                  would be risking throwing his life
                  away!

     He pulls the string tighter with his other hand, then loosens
     it, then wraps it all the way to the tip of his finger, even
     tighter, making the skin bulge and go pale.

     Pain: the only sensation that overrides fear in the face of
     incalculable loss.

     Elwood continues to look at his finger, trying to bend it,
     trying to bring the pad of his fingertip to the palm.


36   INT. CURTIS HOME - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - 1966 - DAY (D29)     36

     Elwood POV walking down the hallway to the kitchen in his
     pajamas. The radio is on, tuned to GOSPEL music, but the
     signal is spotty so there is static interference.

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                      (loudly calling; not the
                       first time)
                  Elwood!

     Elwood slows his pace and peeks around the corner to see his
     grandmother in the midst of a ballet of disoriented
     disbelief. Standing in the middle of the cabinet area of
     their kitchen, mid-turn, Hattie rotates 180 degrees, and
     walks over to a row of cabinets on her left. She bends down
     to open one-

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  Elwood!


                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                               25.
36   CONTINUED:                                                  36

     -stopping abruptly as she begins, the cabinet opening only
     about four inches. She closes the cabinet, stands straight
     up, and walks over to the opposite side of the kitchen to
     search another. She doesn't know what to do with her hands.

                             HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  El-wood!

     In an eerie way, it seems like she is looking for him in the
     cabinets.

     Most of the cabinets and drawers in the kitchen are open to
     some extent. She crosses to the fridge, distracted, no idea
     what she's doing, losing the order of operations....


37   INT. CURTIS HOME - ELWOOD'S BEDROOM - 1966 - DAY (D30)       37

     Elwood POV lying on the bed under the covers looking toward
     the window, which seems unusually far away, as if the room
     was just slightly... stretching.

     Sunlight moves across the room as the earth turns.

                            HATTIE (O.S.)
                      (calling from downstairs)
                  Mr. Hill is by, he wants to see you
                  before you go!

                            MR. HILL (O.S.)
                      (calling out)
                  Elwood?


38   EXT. PARK - TALLAHASSEE - 1966 - DAY (D31)                   38

     Elwood POV sitting on a bench. He stares down at his own
     body, slumped with despair. He sees his shadow at an angle on
     the ground. The shadow disappears slowly - the light flattens
     as clouds pass overhead - and then his shadow reappears as
     the sun remerges.


39   OMITTED                                                      39


40   INT. CURTIS HOME - DINING AREA - 1966 - EVENING (E32)        40

     Sound of a radio playing Gospel in the background.

     Elwood POV as he turns the corner hallway and walks toward
     the dining area.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             26.
40   CONTINUED:                                                40

     Hattie's at the dining table, her back toward him, putting
     out a large, lopsided, heavily icing-ed cake, made by a
     person clearly demented with grief.

                            HATTIE
                      (talking to herself)
                  Act above your station and you will
                  pay. Act above your station and you
                  will pay. White lady accused my
                  daddy. Big, cheerful daddy, walking
                  to his second job. I'd just waved
                  to you across the street, going
                  home from school. Said you didn't
                  get outta her way.

     She pulls out a large knife and cuts into it, cutting very
     large, generous pieces.

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  Two days later, still waiting to
                  see the judge. Hanged in your cell.
                  God the judge that day. Lord!

     Elwood approaches her slowly.

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  I ain't take more than my portion!
                  White man teach me never to ask for
                  more crumbs than he wants to give.
                  Nope, I paid. My daddy paid. My
                  Monty paid. Paid protecting others
                  from paying. Percy paid when he
                  came back. Army don't protect you
                  here, Percy. Why? Your portion is
                  pain.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Nanna-

     She doesn't appear to hear him.

                            HATTIE
                      (shaking her head, loud)
                  Not Elwood, Lord.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Nanna, I'll be back soon.

                             HATTIE
                       (focusing; gesturing)
                  Yeah? Look what Mr. Hill brought
                  you.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                               27.
40   CONTINUED: (2)                                              40

     Mr. Hill has left the LP of Dr. King's 1962 Mount Zion speech
     on the table for him.

                         HATTIE (CONT'D)
               Ain't that nice? ... Sit down, have
               some cake with Nanna.

     She pushes a plate with a large piece toward him.


41   INT. POLICE CAR - RURAL ROAD - FLORIDA - 1966 - DAY (D33) 41

     Elwood POV of a passing Florida landscape, out the backseat
     window of a moving Department of Corrections police car.
     Light SOUND of a sawing, as through leather.

     Elwood turns to glance back into the car from where he's
     seated behind a white Department of Corrections POLICE
     OFFICER (40s): a good old boy who's eating some greasy fried
     chicken as he drives. A wire cage divider separates the cop
     from the back seat. Elwood's gaze drifts back out the window.
     Light SOUND of sawing continues.

     Elwood turns from the window and looks back into the car
     again. There are two other teenage boys in the back. WHITE
     BOY 1 (eyes punched purple; lips scabbed) is next to him in
     the middle back seat, and WHITE BOY 2 (freckles, crewcut red
     hair) sits behind the passenger side. The two white boys
     ignore him.

     The police officer glances in the rearview mirror.

                         POLICE OFFICER
               This a repeat for you, young man?

                         WHITE BOY 1
               I'm "recalcitrant".

     Elwood looks over at the boys.

                         WHITE BOY 2
               Wassat?

     He's holding what looks like a serrated SHARK TOOTH, and he's
     been sawing at the back of the front passenger seat.

                         WHITE BOY 1
               Hell if I'm gonna explain it to
               you.

     Elwood stifles a grim laugh and looks up at the rearview. The
     officer glances at him in the mirror, rolls a chicken bone
     around in his mouth, then chucks it out the window.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                28.
41   CONTINUED:                                                   41

                            POLICE OFFICER
                  You two are sitting next to a
                  bonafide car thief.

     The white boys try not to be impressed.

     The officer pulls off the road into a ditch. As the car hits
     a BUMP, Elwood's leg touches White Boy 1's next to his. He
     sees the white boy jerk his leg away, as if electro-shocked.

     The officer licks his fingers clean, opens the door and gets
     out. Elwood's gaze follows him as he walks around the front
     of the car to the other side to take a piss.

     SOUND of a RIPPING. Elwood's gaze moves to White Boy 2 and
     fixates on the deep slash he's carved into the back of the
     front seat with the shark tooth.


42   INT. ADULT ELWOOD'S APARTMENT - NYC - 2018 - DAY (D-FF1)     42

     Brightly colored ground penetrating radar (GPR) images of
     unmarked graves where bodies have been buried and discovered
     with this technology are up on a computer screen. SOUND of a
     mouse click and the image changes. Someone [ADULT ELWOOD] is
     on a computer looking at these. Click, it changes again.


43   INT. POLICE CAR - NICKEL ACADEMY - MARIANNA FL - 1966 -      43
     DAY (D33)

     Elwood POV from the back seat of the car as it pulls into the
     Nickel Academy school grounds.



                            POLICE OFFICER
                  Look lively back there. Welcome to
                  the famous Nickel Academy.

     Not what Elwood imagined. The place is lush green and dotted
     with buildings of red brick. It's a perversion of the college
     he was intended for.

     The police car drives up the road to the main administration
     building with an American flag and a statue, passing a field
     where some white boys are scrimmaging and yelping.

                             WHITE BOY 1
                      (pleased)
                  All right.




                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                              29.
43    CONTINUED:                                                43

      The car stops outside the building and the officer gets out.
      Elwood watches as he opens the side door. The white boys
      scooch out. Elwood starts to follow.

                              POLICE OFFICER
                   Not yet.

      He shuts the door. Elwood observes him hand off the white
      boys to a white male school official in a uniform.

      The officer gets back in the car and drives Elwood further up
      the hill to the other side of the school: same basic look,
      but fewer athletic facilities and there are more buildings
      purposed for labor. A cement block works, a smokehouse, a
      laundry, and a small lone sugar cube of a building known as
      the WHITE HOUSE, with rust stains like vines falling across
      its white walls. It's the only building with a patch of uncut
      grass encircling it. They pull into a Nickel parking lot.


44    OMITTED                                                     44


44A   INT. INTAKE BUILDING - NICKEL ACADEMY - 1966 - DAY (D33) 44A

      Elwood POV from where he's seated in the intake room. It's a
      stark contrast to the well-maintained outside: run-down,
      cracked paint, water stained ceilings. The walls are scuffed
      and scratched. A COMMANDING MALE VOICE is carrying loudly.

                             SPENCER (O.S.)
                   When Trevor Nickel passed the baton
                   to the current Director Hardee, he
                   devised four ranks of behavior
                   here: start as a Grub, work your
                   way up to Explorer, then Pioneer,
                   and finally, Ace.

      Elwood looks around at the eleven other Black boys, as
      MAYNARD SPENCER (50s) writes "Ace" on the chalkboard next to
      the other ranks. Spencer is a white man with bits of silver
      in his cropped black hair. He wears a fastidious dark blue
      Nickel uniform with every crease sharp enough to cut, and a
      large ring of keys on his belt.

      Spencer turns around, his COLD STEEL EYES now visible under
      thick eyebrows. Elwood notices the boys are restless,
      shifting in their seats, not knowing what to expect.

                             SPENCER (CONT'D)
                   Earn merits for acting right, and
                   you move on up the ladder.
                             (MORE)



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                              30.
44A   CONTINUED:                                               44A
                             SPENCER (CONT'D)
                   Achieve the highest rank of Ace,
                   and then you graduate and go home
                   to your families. (If they'll have
                   you, but that's between y'all.)
                   (beat) An Ace listens to the house
                   men and his house father, he does
                   his work without shirking or
                   malingering, and he applies himself
                   to his studies. An Ace does not
                   roughhouse, he does not cuss, he
                   does not blaspheme and carry on. He
                   works to reform himself from
                   sunrise to sunset. (beat) It's up
                   to you how much time you spend with
                   us. We don't mess around here with
                   idiots. It you mess up, we have a
                   place for you, and you will not
                   like it. I'll see to it personally.

      He touches the enormous key ring on his belt, and the corners
      of his mouth twitch into a smile. He points to a smaller,
      rabbit-faced boy, COREY.

                             SPENCER (CONT'D)
                   Tell them, Corey, since you've come
                   back for a second taste of Nickel.

                             COREY
                       (stuttering VERY badly)
                   Yes s-s-s-sir.

                             SPENCER
                   Why don't you stand up.

                             COREY
                       (standing makes it worse)
                   You d-d-d-d-d-do-don'-

                             SPENCER
                       (nodding)
                   That's right.

                             COREY
                       (starting again)
                   You sh-sh-shouldn't s-s-s-s-s-s-st-
                   step over the line, in here.

      Without looking at him, Spencer gestures for Corey to sit
      back down. Then he looks at each boy in turn, takes notes in
      his head, and walks out of the room.

      The ring of keys on his belt jangles as he walks off down the
      hall, like spurs in a western. It's his signature sound.
      Elwood POV looks at the list on the board.
                                                               31.


45   INT. ADULT ELWOOD'S APARTMENT - NYC - 2018 - NIGHT (N-FF2) 45

     More GPR images of unmarked graves and their contents on
     Adult Elwood's computer screen. Just enough SOUND of keyboard
     and mouse clicking to signal he's been calling up these
     images online, then searching out more information about a
     horrific discovery and the start of an exhumation of graves
     at the Nickel Academy in Marianna, FL.

     From somewhere else in the apartment, his wife MILLIE calls
     out in a loving tone.

                         MILLIE (O.S.)
               Hey, babe? You all right? When you
               going to give that computer a
               break?

                         ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
               A few more minutes. You go on ahead
               and start without me.



46   OMITTED                                                     46


47   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1966 - DAY (D33)          47

     Elwood POV standing in the dorm room, staring at the floor.

                         BLAKELEY (O.S.)
               That's you over there.

     BLAKELEY (60s, white hair, mirthful eyes, a drinker) is the
     House Father of Elwood's assigned dorm.

     Blakeley gestures toward an empty bed beside two boys,
     DESMOND (round head, chubby) and a LANKIER BOY. Elwood looks
     up in their direction. Three rows of beds stretch over the
     blue linoleum, each row with ten beds, each bed with a small
     trunk at the foot of it.

     All the boys in the room wear a school uniform: denim pants,
     gray work shirts which are threadbare, and brown brogues they
     must keep polished.

                         BLAKELEY (CONT'D)
               Desmond, show him the ropes.

                         DESMOND
               Yes sir, Mr. Blakeley.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                              32.
47   CONTINUED:                                                 47

                            BLAKELEY
                      (to Elwood)
                  You know when to say yes sir- which
                  is always- you'll be okay.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Yes sir.

                             BLAKELEY
                       (to Desmond)
                  Don't think I won't be watching
                  you.

     Blakeley leaves.

     Elwood looks around. Each boy in the dorm takes Elwood's
     measure, some of them conferring quietly with their buddies
     and others filing away their appraisals for later.

     A large boy, GRIFF, looks like a 30-year old man, but Elwood
     knows that's impossible because they let you out when you
     turn 20. Griff walks past another boy, CHICKIE PETE, who has
     a bald spot, like he's been pulling his own hair out, and
     smacks him in the back of the head. He continues to his bunk
     while staring at Elwood.

     Desmond and the lanky boy return to their Negro League
     baseball cards. Elwood moves toward his bunk.


48   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                           48

     SILENT. Institutional-style footage of an old reform school
     for boys, Deep South. The Black boys are well-dressed and the
     classroom is orderly. The "ideal" setting for learning.


49   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - SHOWERS - 1966 - DAY (D34)           49

     SOUND of showers, boys' voices. Elwood POV moving from the
     line-up for the showers into place in front of a tile wall.
     Blakeley is beside him.

                            BLAKELEY
                  You get two minutes.

     Elwood turns his head over his shoulder, his gaze roving and
     slightly out of focus as he turns from the tile wall he is
     facing, to the boys to the rear of him. Everyone's naked.

                            BLAKELEY (CONT'D)
                  You won't want more.

     Blakeley turns the water on. It's freezing.


                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                             33.
49   CONTINUED:                                                49

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                      (shivering, heavy
                       breathing)
                  Svvv, ahhh...

     The blurry shapes of naked boys comes into focus. There are
     more than 5, and 3 of them have long scars on their backs.
     Others have lumpy lines of scars that look like burn marks.

     He's about to start soaping himself when a hand reaches out
     and snatches his soap. Elwood follows the retracting hand,
     his gaze moving up to the face of the SHOWER BOY.

                            BLAKELEY (O.S.)
                  Give him back his soap!

     Another SHOWER BOY 2 tries to take the soap from the first
     thief. As he turns his back to Elwood, he displays scars like
     scribbles, which causes Elwood to jump back.

     The boys tussle over his soap now, and Elwood watches in awe.

                            BLAKELEY (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      (somewhere in the
                       background)
                  Knock it off now!


50   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DAY (D35)          50

     Elwood POV walking in between some buildings. His gaze is
     fixed on the back of the head of the boy just in front of
     him, Chickie Pete, the boy with the bald spot, then he shifts
     focus to the two other boys ahead of him.

     The SOUND of an engine approaching, muffled voices of boys
     under it, causes Elwood to look back over his shoulder. He's
     amazed by the sight of a TRACTOR BOY (young teen) driving an
     old tractor that pulls a wooden trailer full of boys
     returning from hard work in the fields. Tractor Boy looks
     serene in his big seat, his charges filthy and sluggish with
     fatigue as they jump out.

     Elwood keeps walking, then turns around again to look over
     his shoulder... There are still, impossibly, boys hopping out
     of the back of the trailer.


51   OMITTED                                                   51
                                                              34.


52    ARCHIVAL IMAGE                                               52

      SILENT. A black and white still image of boys from the Arthur
      G. Dozier School for Boys in Florida (the actual Nickel).

                                                         CUT TO:

      CU, somewhat blurred, of one of the boy's faces.

                                                         CUT TO:

      CU, blurred, of another boy's eyes, filling the entire frame.

                                                         CUT TO:

      ECU, blurred, of the iris of the one of the boy's eyes...


52A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                            52A

      Time-lapse footage from the inside of a railway boxcar, a
      flat Florida landscape passes by. The changing sky and
      changing landscapes as the train heads North fade to night,
      then back to the light of morning.

      Cue music.


53    EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DAY (D35)             53

      Elwood POV outside a building on the Black side of campus,
      tracking an object in the sky falling toward earth in the
      distance.

      Elwood's gaze follows the object, which we can now make out
      is a football, as it heads toward a small group of WHITE
      BOYS, on the white side of the Nickel campus down the hill in
      a grassy field. The SOUND of the boys playing "500" aka
      Jackpot Football starts when they come into view, jockeying
      to catch it.

      A sturdy black-haired boy, JAIME (Mexican, darker than the
      other boys) runs faster than anyone else and catches it
      triumphantly.

      Just then Spencer appears, walking over to the sideline of
      the field with a big black man, EARL (40s, brick house).

      As Jaime trots back to the other side of the field with the
      ball to take up his position as the new thrower, Spencer
      sends Earl from the sideline out to intercept him on the
      field. They have a word.




                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                35.
53   CONTINUED:                                                   53

     The white boys GROAN as Jaime turns toward them and shrugs.
     He kicks the football straight up into the sky with all his
     might before walking off the field.

                             JAIME
                  Jackpot.

     Elwood's gaze tilts upward to watch the ball as it streaks
     upward and carries over to...


54   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DINING HALL - 1966 - MORNING (D35B) 54

     ...Elwood's POV of an orange rolling around on his tray as he
     walks through the mess hall with a bowl of lumpy oatmeal.

     The mess hall is loud and rowdy, full of boys serving up
     their morning round of nonsense.

     He finds an empty seat at one of the long tables. When he
     nears, an OLDER BOY AT DINING HALL slaps his hand "saved!" on
     the bench.

     The next table over is filled with younger kids but when
     Elwood puts his tray down they look at him like he's crazy.

                            YOUNG BOY AT DINING HALL
                  Big kids aren't allowed to sit at
                  the little kids' table.

     Elwood lowers his eyes and moves off. He sits down quickly at
     the next free spot he sees, and to head off rebuke doesn't
     make eye contact. He just looks at the bowl before him, picks
     up his spoon and starts to wolf his oatmeal.

                                                        CUT TO:

     SOMEONE ELSE'S POV of ELWOOD digging dedicatedly into a bowl
     of oatmeal with a spoon.

     At the table behind Elwood, their backs to him, a few GROWN
     MEN are interspersed among the boys, wearing the same Nickel
     uniform.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  You eat that oatmeal like your mama
                  made it.

                            ELWOOD
                      (looking up, prickly)
                  What?

     We are looking at Elwood for the first time, from someone
     else's POV.


                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                36.
54   CONTINUED:                                                   54

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  I ain't never seen someone eat this
                  food like that- like they liked it.

                            ELWOOD
                      (a beat; considered
                       response)
                  Dumped a lot of cinnamon in it.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                      (a beat; also considered)
                  I'm Turner.

     Confirmed. We are in Turner's POV and are seeing Elwood
     clearly for the first time. He carries himself upright, no
     trace of slouch, vigilant, taking the measure...

                            ELWOOD
                  I'm Elwood. (beat) From
                  Tallahassee. Frenchtown.

                            GRIFF (O.S.)
                      (mimicking; sissy voice)
                  Frenchtown.

     Elwood turns.

                                                        CUT TO:

     We're back in Elwood's POV. There are three of them: GRIFF,
     broad chested and hunched like a brown hear, the kid who
     looked so mature in the dorm. BLACK MIKE, wiry, restless. He
     sits on his hands to keep them from flying off. And a kid
     with a patchy mustache and bulldog face.

     The seats between are empty: everyone else knows better.

                            TURNER
                  I don't know why you so loud, you
                  know they got their eye on you this
                  week.

     Griff makes a BARKING noise at Turner. The other two boys
     laugh and also start barking.

     Turner (16) peels his own orange, ignoring them til they get
     bored and turn back to their `morning meeting'.

                            TURNER (CONT'D)
                  I'm from Houston myself. That's a
                  real city. None of this country
                  shit y'all got up here.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                37.
54   CONTINUED: (2)                                               54

     The mess hall is loud with the rumble and roil of juvenile
     activity, but this boy bobs in his own pocket of calm.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   (tipping his head toward
                    the bullies)
               Thanks for that.

     Turner gets up, picking up his tray.

                         TURNER
               I didn't do shit.


55   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - CLASSROOM - 1966 - DAY (D35B)          55

     Elwood POV looking at a couple of dusty, dried up terrariums
     and an aquarium, long abandoned, the water cloudy. Elwood
     focuses briefly on the gravel at the bottom, greenish with
     algae, fish scales, dead bits of plants, a cat's eye marble
     and other debris, then he shifts focus through the glass to
     out the window behind the aquarium, abstracting into the sky.

     He's startled when someone (O.S.) throws a balled up piece of
     paper into the aquarium and it slowly unfurls in the water.


56   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1966 - NIGHT (D35B)        56

     Elwood POV, turning from the pillow case that smells like
     vinegar, up to the ceiling of the dormitory room where water
     marks seem to contract and expand like a colony of jellyfish.
     Paint rinds hang like tendrils from the ceiling.

     Outside, katydids and crickets screech in waves, soft then
     loud, back and forth.

     Suddenly a roaring SOUND commences. It comes from outside, a
     forbidding mechanical and- torrential- rush, with no clue to
     its origin.

                         BLACK MIKE (O.S.)
                   (from across the room)
               Iccceeee creammm.

     He strikes a match, which illuminates him briefly in a
     ghoulish way. Another boy strikes a match on a bunk the other
     side of the room.

     Then another boy follows suit, also in a screechy voice.

                         BLACK BOY 1 (O.S.)
               Iiicccceee cccrrrreeeeamm.



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                38.
56   CONTINUED:                                                   56

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                      (anxious)
                  What is that?

     Another match is struck elsewhere in the room.

                            BLACK BOY 2 (O.S.)
                  I scrrreeeeeeeeeamm.

     A few boys snicker.

     Elwood turns to look across the beds, but the sooty windows
     make the dorm room dim as the matches die out.


57   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                             57

     Full-screen. The Defiant Ones, opening scene of the film
     including original credits. Sidney Poitier sings "Long
     gone... ain't he lucky... Long gone... to Kentucky" a
     cappella...


58   OMITTED                                                      58


59   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - CLASSROOM - 1966 - DAY (D36)           59

     Elwood POV from the third row of a crammed eight-row
     arrangement, staring at the back of the teacher MR. GOODALL
     (white, 60s) with tortoise shell glasses and white hair. He's
     facing the blackboard, explaining basic addition.

     SOUND of Griff and his cronies playing cards, snickering,
     O.S. at the back of the classroom.

                            MR. GOODALL (O.S.)
                      (oblivious)
                  ...and On Tuesday, he made 50
                  dollars. Finally, on Wednesday, he
                  made 100 dollars. How much has he
                  made so far?

     The posters on the walls feature bespectacled owls hooting
     out the alphabet next to bright drawings of elementary nouns:
     house, cat, barn. Little kid stuff.

     One boy is reading a wrinkled Marvel comic. He glances at
     Elwood, shrugs and turns the page. Desmond is asleep on a
     desk, his neck at a painful angle.

     A heavy burping kid next to Elwood starts a dumb game of tug-
     of-war with the math primer they have to share.


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                               39.
59   CONTINUED:                                                  59

     At the board Mr. Goodall has drawn the equation.

                            MR. GOODALL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                  ...carry the one. You carry the
                  one, see.

     He makes a little arrow on the chalkboard illustrating the
     process. Elwood gives up the primer.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  Not what you expected?

     Elwood turns around at the sound of Turner's voice, finding
     him a couple rows behind on the other side of the classroom,
     diligently folding a paper on his desk. Turner ignores him,
     as if he never asked the question.

     Elwood looks back toward the chalk board.

                            MR. GOODALL (O.S.)
                      (at the board)
                  And we get 300.

     A paper airplane (thrown by Turner) glides gently by him.
     Elwood watches as it floats briefly suspended in the air.


60   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - BATHROOM - 1966 - AFTERNOON (D37)      60

     Elwood POV from inside a bathroom stall through the gap
     between the stall door and frame of Black Mike shoving Corey,
     the stutterer, into a corner, back to the walls. Black Mike
     squeezes Corey's face cheeks together with one hand while
     Corey breathes hard. He lets go and takes a step back. Corey,
     barely gathering himself, takes a step forward as Black Mike
     shoves Corey back against the wall. He falls to his knees and
     Black Mike steps forward, hands on his crotch, intentions
     clear.

     Elwood jets out of the stall and steps between them.

                             ELWOOD
                  Eh!

     Black Mike spins around and slugs him, knocking him back
     against the sink. Elwood rolls over, falls, a copper penny
     flying from his shirt pocket as he flails his arm out and
     knocks open the stall door he came out of.

     Just then Desmond opens the door to the bathroom, sees what's
     happening-

                             DESMOND
                  Oh shit!


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             40.
60   CONTINUED:                                                60

     -and runs off.

                            DESMOND (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                      (racing down the hall)
                  Fight ! Fight !

     Black Mike grimaces and looks down at Elwood.

                            LONNIE (O.S.)
                  Damn Mike, why'd you have to hit
                  him so hard. Shit.

     Blakeley enters. He takes in the situation and also looks
     down at Elwood who is groaning.

                            BLAKELEY
                  Ain't you the new boy?

                            BLACK MIKE (O.S.)
                  His fault. He started it.

                            BLAKELEY
                  Nuh-uh, I don't care who's at
                  fault, who started it, or why.

     Elwood looks up to the moving ceiling as Blakeley drags him
     out of the bathroom. In the corner of his eye he sees Black
     Mike bend to pick up the penny that flew from his pocket.

                               BLACK MIKE
                         (looking at it, surprised)
                  Hey-

                            BLAKELEY
                      (to all of them)
                  Mr. Spencer will take this up.

     Elwood sees the boys look at each other.

                            LONNIE (O.S.)
                      (upset)
                  Spencer? Shit. Now you done it.


61   ARCHIVAL IMAGES                                             61

     SILENT. Consecutive images of actual exhumed student graves
     and some of their contents: marbles, buttons, pennies, belt
     buckles, a comb.
                                                                41.


62   EXT. CITRUS GROVE - NICKEL PLANTATIONS - 1966 - DAY (D38) 62

     Elwood POV walking through a grove on a work detail behind
     Desmond, who turns to swiftly check if Elwood's there.

     They walk between rows of trees, Elwood looking right and
     left at the SOUND of boys' voices all around him. There are
     harvest baskets with oranges beside every tree.

     From somewhere up ahead in the grove, a loud TARZAN yell. An
     orange is tossed from tree to tree by unseen boys.

     Elwood searches the leafy branches as they catch up to the
     work gang, then sees the boys picking oranges and tossing
     them into the baskets on the ground.

     He sees FOUR MEN ON STILTS striding through the groves,
     moving like strange beasts, checking on the thoroughness of
     the work. One pauses at a tree, peaks into the upper
     branches, then continues on.

     Elwood walks toward the approaching stilt men. He sees one of
     the boys scramble back to a tree, reaching up for a lone
     orange that was missed.

     The stilt men pass by above Elwood.

                         STILT MAN (O.S.)
                   (calling out)
               Don't bruise `em!

                         DESMOND
                   (trying unsuccessfully to
                    get his attention)
               Boss! Boss!

     Desmond turns to Elwood.

                         DESMOND (CONT'D)
               Okay El, start with the ones on the
               bottom, and fill the basket by the
               trees. Take `em to the truck down
               at the end of the row. That's it.

     He walks off. An orange thuds on the ground near Elwood.

                         JAIME (O.S.)
                   (cursing to himself)
               Cabrn- !

     Elwood watches it roll to a halt. He turns around and looks
     over to see Jaime, the same boy Spencer pulled from the
     football field, peeking out through the branches. He looks at
     Elwood, friendly.


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                42.
62   CONTINUED:                                                   62

                            JAIME (CONT'D)
                  Cuidado, chico.


63   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1966- NIGHT (N38)          63

     Elwood POV as he awakens in his bunk to the SOUND of tires
     grinding gravel outside, car doors opening, feet thumping up
     the stairs.

     The men's flashlights dance. Earl, the large black man who
     helped Spencer on the football field, and a couple of WHITE
     MEN search the bunks. They make sure to get the right boys by
     shining flashlights in their faces.

     Others peek out from under their sheets as they grab Black
     Mike, Corey and then Elwood, and lead them from the room.


64   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - "WHITE HOUSE" - 1966 - NIGHT (N38)     64

     Elwood POV as the boys follow Earl in the darkness along a
     pathway toward the white rust-stained sugar cube building
     Elwood noticed when he first arrived at Nickel.

     Off to the side a figure is leaning against a parked Cadillac
     Eldorado convertible, unnoticed in the darkness until his
     cigar tip glows briefly orange-red. Shortly thereafter the
     boys hear the SOUND of keys JANGLING as he draws near them.

     Spencer walks through the boys on the path, pauses at the
     door in the darkness to find the key on his enormous key
     ring, and opens the two padlocks.


65   INT. "WHITE HOUSE" - 1966 - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS] (N38)         65

     Elwood POV as they enter. The stench is fierce. Urine, feces
     and fear are soaked into the concrete and they all react to
     it as they enter. A naked bulb buzzes on in the hallway.

     Spencer and Earl lead them to a room at the front of the
     building, where a line of bolted-together chairs waits, and a
     table. The sitting room faces the beating room, where Elwood
     sees a wooden barn pommel with a rail behind it.

     Spencer and Earl take Black Mike in first.

                             SPENCER
                  Thought you'd be done after the
                  last time.

     They shut the door.



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                               43.
65   CONTINUED:                                                  65

                            EARL (O.S.)
                  Piss himself again.

     The roar SOUND begins. Elwood's chair vibrates with the
     energy. Some sort of machine is loud enough to cover Black
     Mike's screams and the smack of the strap on his body. Elwood
     closes his eyes and tries to count. The SCREEN goes BLACK.

                            COREY (O.S.)
                      (terrified)
                  I'm-a hold on and be s-s-s-s-s-s-st-
                  I'm-a hold on and be st-st-still.

     SOUND of Corey sobbing as they drag Black Mike out.

                            EARL (O.S.)
                  Shut up, punk.

     They take Corey.

                            SPENCER (O.S.)
                  Alright Corey, c'mon.

     Elwood opens his eyes and sees a Bible on the table.


66   INT. "WHITE HOUSE" - BEATING ROOM - 1966 - NIGHT [CONT]     66
     (N38)

     Elwood POV, there it is: the gigantic industrial fan that is
     the source of the ROARING sound that travels all over campus.
     As he is brought closer to the pommel he can see fresh
     splatter on the concrete block wall where the fan has whipped
     blood in its gusting. And there's a weird thing with the
     acoustics, where the fan covers the screams outside, but
     right next to him, Elwood can hear Spencer's instructions
     perfectly.

                            SPENCER
                  Elwood Curtis.

     The tone of his voice is chillingly amused, as if he's
     putting Elwood onto a ride at an amusement park.

                            SPENCER (CONT'D)
                  Hold on to the rail and don't let
                  go. Shhhh. Don't make a sound.
                  (pause) You'll get more.

     Elwood bends over the pommel and grips the rail, his focus on
     the concrete blocks which he can now make out are each
     stamped N I C K E L. The beating starts, and with it the
     ROARING SOUND of the FunTown roller coaster ride, children
     exclaiming. Elwood's POV freezes into a STILL.
                                                               44.


67   ARCHIVAL IMAGES                                             67

     A slow series of up to ten pairs of STILL portraits, which
     change (though not always synced) with the SOUND of each blow
     of the whip. Child. Adult. Child. Adult. We gradually realize
     that we're looking at portraits of children followed
     immediately by their portraits as adults.

                         HATTIE (V.O.)
               Elwood honey, blink.


68   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - INFIRMARY - 1966 - DAY (D39)          68

     Elwood POV lying on his stomach in an infirmary bed as his
     eyes flutter open, his focus blurred as he looks down at his
     fingers dangling over the side of the bed.

     He GROANS in pain.

                         NURSE SCARLETT (O.S.
                   (reading from the Bible;
                    Romans 8)
               ...who shall separate us from the
               love of Christ? Shall tribulation,
               or distress, or persecution, or
               famine, or nakedness, or peril, or
               sword?

     SOUND of her turning a page.

                          NURSE SCARLETT (O.S.) (CONT'D)
               As it is written, For thy sake we
               are killed all the day long; we are
               accounted as sheep for the
               slaughter.

     Elwood turns his head in the other direction. He now sees the
     NURSE SCARLETT (white, 40s) across the simple ward in partial
     silhouette, her back turned to him. She wears a starched
     white uniform, white shoes and stockings, and has a red
     bouffant. She's seated at a bedside behind a partly drawn
     curtain, reading the Bible to a WHITE BOY in the infirmary.
     Elwood can just make out a bandage covering the boy's head
     and most of his face.

                         NURSE SCARLETT (CONT'D)
               Nay, in all these things we are
               more than conquerors through Him
               that loved us.

     The boy never says anything, never moves. Nurse Scarlett
     reaches out to take his limp hand. SOUND of her turning a
     page.


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                   45.
68    CONTINUED:                                                     68

                             NURSE SCARLETT (CONT'D)
                   For I am persuaded, that neither
                   death, nor life, nor angels, nor
                   principalities, nor powers, nor
                   things present, nor things to come,
                   Nor height, nor depth, nor any
                   other creature... shall be able to
                   separate us from the love of God...


69    EXT. NICKEL FIELD - COMMUNITY SERVICE VAN - 1966 -     DAY     69
      (D40)

      From the front passenger seat of the van as it drives across
      a grassy field, Turner's POV looking in the side view mirror
      at himself as he blows a large Bazooka bubble.

      An open white hand reaches across and SMACKS Turner,
      playfully popping the bubble but also making contact with
      Turner's mouth.

      Turner turns and looks at HARPER (early 20s), a lanky white
      boy with greasy blond hair who sits beside him behind the
      wheel of the white "Community Service" van. Harper makes a
      "pop" sound with his lips and smiles at him.


70    OMITTED                                                        70


70A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1960S                                      70A

      SILENT. In the front yard of a suburban home with a white
      picket fence, two young Black brothers play. One helps launch
      the other into a back flip.


71    EXT. NICKEL - COMMUNITY SERVICE VAN - 1966 - DAY (D40)         71

      Turner POV from the passenger seat of the van as it moves
      through campus. Up ahead he sees Jaime sitting at a picnic
      table outside a small wooden building beside a grassy corral,
      waiting. Anxious.

      Jaime meets Turner's gaze, holding it a beat, then averts his
      eyes, as if ashamed.

      As the van passes, Turner sees a boy exiting the building. A
      WHITE GUARD with a suspiciously heavy arm gripped around the
      boy's shoulder has a word with him before he releases him.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                             46.
71   CONTINUED:                                                71

     The boy's head is lowered and he walks away quickly but with
     an awkward, pained, gait. From the back, Turner can discern
     the bald spot of CHICKIE PETE.

     SOUND of Harper sucking his teeth, Turner turns to find him
     shaking his head disapprovingly.

                            HARPER
                  Sat down to dinner at that guard's
                  house once. Roast beef. His wife
                  made an angel food cake. I was in
                  the scouts with his sons. He taught
                  us how to make a fire.

     The van continues on, Turner turns away from Harper and looks
     back out the window, disturbed.


72   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                             72

     TBD


73   EXT. MARIANNA FL - BACK ALLEY - 1966 - DAY (D41)             73

     Turner POV as he's getting into the passenger seat of the van
     when the BUTCHER (50s), a porky white man whose apron is a
     palimpsest of stains, passes a smeared envelope of cash
     through the driver's side window to Harper.

     Turner watches as the Butcher SLAPS the roof too hard, and
     backs away from the van into an open doorway.

                            HARPER
                  That don't bode well. I can't help
                  it if we don't got every can of
                  beans he asked for.

     Harper opens the envelope.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  Fiver?

     He takes a ten from the wad of bills then folds the dirty
     envelope in half and snaps a rubber band around it.

                            HARPER
                  Ten for stress. I got my draft
                  notice this morning. You're lucky
                  to be in Nickel.

     He tosses it in the glove compartment with a whole stack.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                               47.
73   CONTINUED:                                                  73

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  Gonna miss your girl.

                             HARPER
                      (nods)
                  We got molasses back there? BBQ
                  joint's next.


74   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - INFIRMARY - 1966 - DAY (D42)           74

     Elwood POV lying on his stomach on the bed. He can hear
     Nurse Scarlett coming, her shoes squeaking on the linoleum
     tiles and her uniform making a scratching sound.

     Her white shoes and panty-hosed legs walk back forth, as she
     collects bedpans and brings clean ones to the few other
     patients on the ward.

     Elwood peers over the edge of his bed and looks down at his
     bedpan harboring feces in a pond of urine.

     Her white shoes finally appear beside his bed. She slides a
     clean bedpan next to the full one with her foot, then turns
     and walks away without collecting Elwood's waste.


75   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DAY (D43)             75

     SOUND of a lawnmower, louder and louder as it approaches.

     Turner POV as he walks along a path that winds through the
     campus. On the grass alongside him, a WHITE BOY pushes a hand
     mower into frame, keeping pace, messing with him. The noise
     is deafening.

     An older Black woman walks past them, demeanor downcast.
     Turner throws a look over his shoulder at the woman: she's an
     unusual sight. The motor cuts off abruptly as it hits a
     fallen branch. The woman pauses, as if struck by a thought,
     and turns: it's HATTIE. She walks back to Turner.

                            HATTIE
                  Young man, do you know a student
                  named Elwood Curtis?

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  Yessum, I do.

     The white boy yanks at the pull cord to restart the mower,
     revving the motor each time.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             48.
75   CONTINUED:                                                75

                            HATTIE
                      (distraught)
                  They told me that he... (mower) I
                  just want... (mower) Would you
                  please...

     She pulls a MANILA ENVELOPE from her bag-

     Just then the motor catches a constant hum. Hattie pauses to
     compose herself. Turner looks past Hattie at the white boy
     who is jeering in his disruptive power.

     Turner returns his gaze to Hattie and nods yes as the white
     boy loses interest and goes off mowing.

                               TURNER (O.S.)
                  Yes ma'am.

                            HATTIE
                  I've come all this way... it's a
                  crime to keep me from him, a crime.
                  (beat) I don't know what kind of
                  place this is, I don't understand
                  why they can't let me see him.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  I'm sorry, ma'am.

                            HATTIE
                      (beat) )
                  Thank you young man, thank you.
                  What is your name?

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                  Turner, ma'am.

                            HATTIE
                  Nice to know I can count on
                  somebody round here, Turner.

     She gives him the manila envelope.

                            HATTIE (CONT'D)
                  When's the last time you had family
                  visit, Turner?

     This is perhaps the last question Turner expected. As the
     lawn mower ROARS past again, the scar tissue suturing the
     wound of his parentless childhood opens for a brief moment,
     his quick wit and charisma lost to the unexpected surge of
     emotion.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                49.
75   CONTINUED: (2)                                               75

                         TURNER (O.S.)
                   (looking down)
               ...They... well, my kin, my
               parents, I mean my ma, she...

     Hattie peers into him, as only a grandmother can,
     understanding instantly the implications of his hesitancy.

                         HATTIE
               Well I came all this way. I can't
               hug Elwood, so you'll have to do.

     Hattie steps forward and embraces Turner, pulling him in
     close and tight. The SOUND of the lawn mower has trailed off
     in the background. Turner's gaze is fixed on the space
     between her ear and neck. They separate after some time.

                         HATTIE (CONT'D)
               What are they feeding you all in
               here? I know you can muster a
               better hug than that.

     Turner laughs.

                         HATTIE (CONT'D)
               I'll expect it the next time,
               Turner. The world needs strong
               young men like you.

     She turns and walks off toward a bus stop down the hill,
     Turner's gaze following her.


76   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - INFIRMARY - 1966 - DAY (D43)           76

     SOUND of someone whistling, cheerful and fluttering.

     Elwood POV, still lying on his stomach, opens his eyes and
     sees an old wooden polio wheelchair with a boy in it get
     pushed clackety-clack past his bed by Nurse Scarlett. The
     boy's whistling is interrupted by deep sighs and groans.

     Nurse Scarlett walks past again going the other direction,
     pulling a pack of menthol cigarettes from her uniform pocket.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               How you making out here, hero?

     Elwood turns over slowly, painfully, to see Turner now in a
     wheelchair by the bed opposite him. A new pair of denim
     dungarees hang over the back of a chair.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             50.
76   CONTINUED:                                                76

                            TURNER (CONT'D)
                  There's four ways out of Nickel and
                  you were almost awarded one for
                  "ineffective heroism".

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  What are the other ways?

                            TURNER
                      (enumerating)
                  Serve your time (or age out). Court
                  might intervene (if you believe in
                  miracles). You could die (they
                  could kill you). You could run.

     Elwood turns away to brood. He sees DOCTOR COOKE (white, 30s)
     walk past, go to a glass case of bottles and boxes of
     medicine, unlock it, and reach for the big bucket of aspirin.
     Then he walks down the row of beds to a white boy who's
     moaning. He pulls a thermometer from the boy's mouth, glances
     at it, drops 2 aspirin in the kid's palm and exits through a
     white curtain.

                            TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                  How you like that witch doctor.

     Turner rolls up to Elwood, clackety-clack in the wheelchair.

                            TURNER (CONT'D)
                  Come in here with your damn head
                  cut off and he'd give you aspirin.

     Elwood laughs, but it hurts.

                            TURNER (CONT'D)
                  Come in here, head cut off, both
                  legs, both arms cut off, and that
                  witch doctor would be like, `You
                  want one tablet, or two?'

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                      (half laughing)
                  How'd you get in here?

                            TURNER
                  Ate some soap powder, an hour of
                  stomach ache for a whole day off.
                  Or two. I know how to sell it. Got
                  some more powder hidden in my sock,
                  too. Thought I'd take me a
                  vacation.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                             51.
76   CONTINUED: (2)                                            76

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
               Aren't you worried they'll know
               you're faking it? Whistling happy
               like that?

                         TURNER
               I ain't faking- that soap powder is
               awful. But it's me choosing, not
               anyone else.

     He coaxes the stuck wheels of the chair and huffs away as Dr.
     Cooke comes over on his rounds.

                         DR. COOKE
               Turner, you again? I told you not
               to eat the food!

                         TURNER
               What else am I supposed to eat,
               Mister Cooke?

     Cooke gives him an aspirin.

                           DR. COOKE
               Doctor.

     He looks at Elwood.

                         DR. COOKE (CONT'D)
               Yeah, they got you good.

     He walks off, exiting. SOUND of a radio being turned on
     somewhere behind it, unexpectedly tuned to classical music.

     Elwood shifts painfully around in the bed.

                                                       CUT TO:


     TURNER POV as he glimpses the blood on Elwood's sheets. He
     stifles a gasp.

     Elwood turns swiftly to look at him, just as Turner looks
     away, pretending not to have seen.

     The invalid boy behind the curtain suddenly makes a HEAVY
     SIGH and Elwood and Turner startle.

                         ELWOOD
               Go look. See who it is. Ask what's
               wrong with him.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               I ain't asking nobody shit.


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                             52.
76   CONTINUED: (3)                                            76

                           ELWOOD
               Scared?

                           TURNER (O.S.)
               Damn,   you don't know. Pop back
               there   for a look, maybe you have to
               trade   places with him. Like in a
               ghost   story.

     Elwood laughs at him. Turner starts to wheel himself over to
     pull back the curtain, when they suddenly he hear Spencer's
     JANGLING keys and his voice.

                         SPENCER (O.S.)
                   (from down the ward)
               Where's Dr. Cooke? I need to talk
               with him.

     Turner watches Elwood curl into a ball on the bed, sweating,
     covering himself completely with a sheet.

                          ELWOOD
                   (quietly)
               Do they do it like that to
               everybody?

                         TURNER (O.S.)
                   (quietly; confessing)
               I never been sent down to the White
               House. I got smacked across the
               face for smoking once.

                          ELWOOD
               I have a lawyer. He can do
               something.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               You already got off lucky.

                           ELWOOD
               How?

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               Sometimes they throw you in Hell. A
               sweatbox up in the eaves below that
               tar roof. Sweat your soul outta
               you.

                           ELWOOD
               Huh.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               Sometimes they take you and we
               never see your ass again.


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                          53.
76   CONTINUED: (4)                                         76

                         ELWOOD
               What?

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               Your family asks the school what
               happened and they say you ran away.
               I'll show you sometime, show you
               something that's not in books,
               where it is. Boot Hill.

     Elwood takes this in.

                                                     CUT TO:

     Elwood's POV.

                         TURNER (CONT'D)
               Problem is Elwood, you didn't know
               how it works. You wanted to do some
               Lone Ranger shit- run up and save a
               boy. Mike and them punked out Corey
               a long time ago. They play rough.
               That's how they do.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               I saw his face, he was scared.

                         TURNER
               You don't know what makes him tick.
               You won't know what makes anybody
               tick. I used to think out there is
               out there, and once you're in here,
               you're in here. But now that I been
               out and I been brought back, I
               know. In here and out there are the
               same, but in here no one has to act
               fake anymore.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               If everyone looks the other way,
               then everybody's in on it. If I
               look the other way, I'm as
               implicated as the rest.

     Turner is silent.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
               It's not how it's supposed to be.

                         TURNER
               Don't nobody care about s'posed to.
               The fix has always been in- game's
               rigged.



                                                     (CONTINUED)
                                                             54.
76   CONTINUED: (5)                                            76

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               That's what I'm telling you.
               It's not like the old days. We can
               stand up for ourselves.

                         TURNER
               That shit barely works out there-
               what do you think it's going to do
               in here?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               You say that because there's no one
               out there sticking up for you.
               I got my grandmother, I got a
               lawyer.

     Turner is cut to the quick- a flash of pain, even jealousy.
     Any intent he had to give Elwood the manila envelope from
     Hattie, dissolves. He rolls clickety-clack across the room,
     dodging obstacles as he speaks about them.

                         TURNER
                   (deliberately hurtful)
               Yeah? How long it been since you
               heard from them? You got to watch
               how people act, what they do, and
               then you got to figure out how to
               get around them like an obstacle
               course. If you want to walk out of
               here.

                           ELWOOD (O.S.)
               Graduate.

     Turner spins the wheelchair in a circle-

                         TURNER
               Walk out of here. You think you can
               do that? Watch and think and plan?
               Cuz nobody else is going to get you
               out- not your grandma, not your
               lawyer. Just you.

     - then pulls back the curtain around the invalid boy. Both
     Turner and Elwood are surprised to see the bed is empty.


77   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1960S                                     77

     SILENT. A Black man runs a shell game on the surface of a
     makeshift table set up on a city sidewalk, luring a small
     crowd of gamblers and onlookers.
                                                                55.


78   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - STAIRWELL - 1966 - DAY (D44)           78

     Elwood POV walking up the stairs at Nickel. He's about eight
     steps from the landing and a turn to the next staircase when
     Griff appears coming down the stairs above, hugging close to
     the railing. He passes Elwood, moving through him- hard- with
     his huge shoulder.

     He body-checks Elwood, who is spun 180 degrees. Elwood grabs
     the rail and stops in his place, and watches Griff continue
     down the stairs.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               I'm not scared of you.

     Just before he turns the corner, Griff looks back and SMILES,
     giving him a nod of respect. Then he disappears from sight.


79   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - BEHIND A BUILDING - 1966 - DAY (D45) 79

     Elwood POV, seated on the grass, leaning against a wall, legs
     splayed on the ground, left arm resting on his thigh, right
     hand weaving a gauze bandage around the fingers of his left
     hand, twisting them into a weird shape, then pulling it taut.


80   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - SMALL GYMNASIUM - 1966 - DAY (D46)     80

     Turner POV looking up into the raised boxing ring from his
     position standing on the ground beside it. Two or three other
     boys also look on. Turner's gaze is centered and absently
     focused on Griff sparring with Black Mike. He's quick and
     lithe but he's getting clobbered by Griff.

     Turner's gaze focuses on Black Mike's back and shoulder as it
     presses against the ropes of the ring, moving forward and
     back. Each time he presses against the rope, there's a little
     impression left in his shoulder. Black Mike takes a
     pummeling, wavers and sinks on his ass.

     Griff spits out the mouthpiece and bellows, raising a gloved
     hand. He gestures to Turner, waving him in.

                         GRIFF
               You know you miss it.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
                   (shaking his head)
               Oh no, all you Griff.

     Griff climbs out through the ropes, unspent energy to spare
     as the others unlace his gloves.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             56.
80   CONTINUED:                                                80

     He feints a punch right at Turner's face. Turner dodges it
     insanely fast. Griff smirks. Uh-huh.


81   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DAY (D47)             81

     Elwood POV waiting with a group of boys as the old tractor
     that will haul them out to the fields in the wooden trailer
     backs up toward them. Blakeley is lecturing them.

                            BLAKELEY
                  Boys, you gotta toughen up. Spider
                  bite, busted ankle, what's next?
                  The count's been off. We can't have
                  those inspectors coming out here
                  thinking that y'all are lazy or
                  that I'm not working you hard
                  enough.

                            TURNER (O.S.)
                      (calling out)
                  Mr. Blakeley. Mr. Blakeley, sir!

     Elwood turns with Blakeley to see Turner approaching.

                            TURNER (CONT'D)
                  Elwood's been reassigned.

                            BLAKELEY
                  Reassigned by who?

                            TURNER
                  Harper. Mr. Harper sir. We're short
                  of hands.

     He points to the Community Service van behind him. Harper is
     waving to Blakeley from outside the driver's side.

                            BLAKELEY
                  Well we're short of hands too, son.

                            TURNER
                  Can we take him, sir ?

                            BLAKELEY
                      (sighing; to Elwood)
                  You keep your nose clean.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Yessir.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                57.
81   CONTINUED:                                                   81

     Elwood follows Turner. They approach the white van from
     behind. A large BLOOM OF RUST is visible on the front fender.

                                                       CUT TO:

     Turner's POV as he turns around and walks backward,
     registering that Elwood is walking with difficulty from the
     beating he got. In the background, behind Elwood and
     interspersed among the waiting group of boys, are some GROWN
     MEN wearing the Nickel uniform.


82   INT. COMMUNITY SERVICE VAN - NICKEL ACADEMY - 1966 - DAY     82
     [CONTINUOUS] (D47)

     Elwood POV as they climb into the van's front seat bench,
     Elwood beside the window, Turner in the middle, Harper at the
     wheel. Harper looks over at Elwood as he pulls out.

                            HARPER
                  Turner here says you can keep your
                  mouth shut, and that you're not a
                  math dummy.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  What are we doing?

     Elwood looks over his shoulder at the back of the van: boxes
     of NOTEBOOKS, pencils, erasers, toothpaste and etc. All
     issued by the GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

                            TURNER
                  It's taking things and making sure
                  they end up where they're supposed
                  to end up in the end.

                               ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Uh-huh.

                            TURNER
                  Sometimes the State gives us more
                  than we strictly need. So we pass
                  it on.

                               ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  For a fee?

                            TURNER
                  "Community Service".

     Elwood nods, leans back in his seat, as Harper drives through
     the campus grounds.

     Harper fiddles the radio dial to a staticky country station.


                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                58.
82   CONTINUED:                                                   82

                            HARPER
                  It used to be worse in the old
                  days, from what my aunt says. But
                  the State cracked down and now we
                  only lay off the south campus
                  stuff.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  You mean the Negro students' stuff.

                            HARPER
                  We had this good ole boy who used
                  to run Nickel, Roberts, who
                  would've sold the air you breathe
                  if he could've. Now that was a
                  crook!

     Elwood looks out the window. Conscious of Turner eyeing him.

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  It had to end up somewhere.

                            TURNER
                  Beats the fields. If you ask me.

     It's Elwood's first trip out in the free world since arrival.
     The air is cool in his lungs and everything outside the
     window dazzles, as they drive away from the Nickel campus.

                            HARPER
                  Beats getting mangled in a machine.


83   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - INTAKE BUILDING - 1966 - DAY (D48)     83

     Elwood POV walking down a paved walk, following an alligator
     at a distance as it takes and turn and lumbers toward the
     intake building.

     Elwood's gaze is steady on the reptile, but he is also
     looking around for another witness as the alligator's TAIL
     disappears inside the building.

     SPENCER'S VOICE is audible coming from within as Elwood
     approaches and stops to peek in from outside. He can only see
     a bit of the INTAKE ROOM, but can make out the designations
     on the chalkboard: Grub, Explorer, Pioneer, Ace. Spencer is
     giving the talk to a new crop of Nickel boys.

                            SPENCER (O.S.)
                  ...you boys are in charge of
                  everything.
                            (MORE)



                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                  59.
83    CONTINUED:                                                    83
                             SPENCER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   Make the concrete blocks in all
                   these buildings you see here, lay
                   the bricks, take care of all this
                   grass. The State's increased our
                   acreage, and we'll have you
                   planting more citrus groves next.
                   Work keeps you level. (beat) And
                   oranges are good for you.

      Elwood POV looks for the alligator. It seems long gone. But
      when Elwood looks down at his feet, he finds it standing
      right beside him.


84    OMITTED                                                          84


85    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - REC ROOM - 1966 - DAY (D49)                85

      Elwood POV writing in a NOTEBOOK he got from the back of the
      Community Van. We get a glimpse of some dates, a list as
      Elwood's gaze shifts to Black Mike crossing his field of
      vision toward Turner.

                                                             CUT TO:

      Turner POV reading a dilapidated comic book. A shadow creeps
      over the page. He looks up to see Black Mike standing there,
      deliberately blocking his light. He flips Elwood's penny.

                              TURNER (O.S.)
                       (sarcastic)
                   Bad penny?

      Black Mike bucks at Turner, but Turner doesn't flinch. Black
      Mike guffaws and walks away. Turner scans the room. A chess
      set with the missing pieces replaced by some handmade from
      soap; stuffing dribbling from the couches and armchairs;
      initials and epithets gouged into tables.

      His gaze lands on Elwood, who hasn't noticed anything and is
      busily writing in a notebook.

      Turner returns to his comic, turns the page.


85A   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY -       1966 - DAY (D49)     85A

      Elwood POV from where he's seated on a bed, of Turner walking
      a line of tiles on the dorm floor, trying to keep his balance
      like it's a sobriety test. Jaime is also hanging out with
      them.




                                                             (CONTINUED)
                                                                 60.
85A   CONTINUED:                                                  85A

                             TURNER
                       (mimicking Blakeley)
                   "Keep your nose clean."

      Elwood and Jaime laugh. Turner adjusts an imaginary tie.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   I can smell it on him in the
                   morning. Whoo...

                             TURNER
                       (in Spanish)
                   Borracho.

                             JAIME
                       (nodding)
                   Enough reasons to drink here.

                             TURNER
                   You think he went here?

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Huh?

                             TURNER
                   They say his name's in the
                   sweatbox.


86    OMITTED                                                      86


86A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1960S - [DELIBERATELY REPEATED]          86A

      SILENT. In the front yard of a suburban home with a white
      picket fence, two young Black brothers play. One helps launch
      the other into a back flip.


87    OMITTED                                                      87


87A   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - REC ROOM - 1966 - DAY (D49)           87A

      Two boys are playing ping pong in the rec room when a small
      lizard suddenly runs across the table.

      The lizard crawls up the pants of a boy.
                                                             61.


88   EXT. NICKEL - GROUNDS - 1966 - LATE AFTERNOON (D50)         88

     Elwood POV sitting beside Turner on a lawn on the campus
     grounds. They're just, sitting. SOUND of wind in the leaves.
     Birds. Sun dappling. A breath of peace.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
               My Aunt Mavis made sure I had nice
               clothes for school and three meals.
               A guy at the Houston airport
               started seeing her. He taught me
               how to box. The day I put myself
               between Aunt Mavis and his fist, he
               took me out for ice cream. "Bring
               this boy the biggest sundae you
               got." Every bite was like another
               sock in the mouth.

                         ELWOOD
               I guess I wouldn't want them to
               visit, either. (pause) What about
               your real father?

     A GROUP OF FIVE BOYS spills out of the gymnasium. Boxers in
     training, their hands still taped, they're supposed to go for
     a run through campus. Instead, fooling around, they throw
     some light punches and one BOY splashes water on a few of
     them. They begin to chase the boy, who veers towards Elwood
     and Turner.

     All the boys are now charging toward them at full speed.
     Turner starts to back up in alarm, Elwood tries to pull him
     down as the boy being chased, then the other boys in pursuit
     run right at them.

                         TURNER (O.S.)
                   (shouting)
               Hey hey! Look out!

                                                       CUT TO:

     Turner's POV, panicking as he looks past Elwood at the boys
     charging. At the last moment Turner leans back and looks up
     as two boys hurdle over them- and in that split second they
     are not boys but two GROWN MEN in Nickel uniforms- and
     continue their horseplay out of frame.

                                                       CUT TO:

     Elwood's POV as Turner leaps to his feet.




                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                 62.
88    CONTINUED:                                                   88

                             TURNER (CONT'D)
                       (completely freaking out)
                   Jackasses! They know I hate that
                   shit! Fuck y'all! Fuck!

      Elwood reaches out and touches him. Turner whips his head
      around to look at Elwood, tears in his eyes.


89    OMITTED                                                      89


89A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1960S                                    89A

      A television commercial promoting Florida, the "Sunshine
      State" - happy white people frolicking on beaches, water
      skiing, reeling in big fish, drinking orange juice.


90    EXT. HARDEE HOUSE - PORCH - MARIANNA - 1966 - DAY (D51)      90

      Turner's POV as he and Elwood paint the weathered, faded grey
      floorboards of a long porch than runs along the back of a big
      pink house with white trim and pillars.

      A sparkling blue swimming pool floats in a lush green lawn
      surrounded by banana trees, palms and a few pool umbrellas.
      An American flag sighs on a pole attached to the house.

      A canvas tarp with painting supplies lies nearby.

      A voluptuous white woman, MRS. HARDEE (30s, beehive), wearing
      Jackie sunglasses and a patterned yellow dress walks toward
      them with two glasses of iced orange juice on a platter.

                             MRS. HARDEE
                       (approaching)
                   This is so exciting.

      She offers the boys the orange juice.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                   Thank you, Mrs. Hardee, don't mind
                   if I do.

                             ELWOOD
                   Much obliged, ma'am.

                             MRS. HARDEE
                   My great-grandfather built this
                   place 106 years ago. My husband
                   proposed to me right there.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                             63.
90   CONTINUED:                                                90

     She points, then spots a bug on her shoulder and flicks it
     off.

                            MRS. HARDEE (CONT'D)
                  You boys are so nice to help us out
                  here.

     She turns to go, then pauses.

                            MRS. HARDEE (CONT'D)
                  Oh, almost forgot, I have a box of
                  books to donate to the Nickel
                  library.

                            ELWOOD
                  We can help you with that.

                            MRS. HARDEE
                  The box is in the garage-

     She points to a garage near the house.

                            MRS. HARDEE (CONT'D)
                  It's Trollope and Austen and
                  Dickens and people with names like
                  that. (singsong) Ta-ta!

     They watch her saunter back to the house, past a few BICYCLES
     and a dusty tire pump leaning against the wall of the porch,
     then return to their painting.

                            ELWOOD
                  My grandma once lent me out for ten
                  cents to give Mrs. Lamont's
                  outhouse a new coat.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                  Used to be worse around here. When
                  you graduated you didn't go back to
                  your family, you had parole and
                  they sold your monkey ass to people
                  in the town. You had to work off
                  your debt.

                            ELWOOD
                  Debt from what?

                                                        CUT TO:

     Elwood's POV.

                            TURNER
                  I never thought about it that way.



                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                             64.
90   CONTINUED: (2)                                            90

     Elwood shakes a new can of "Dixie White", pries it open and
     stirs.

                         TURNER (CONT'D)
               El, don't go too fast. This can be
               a three-day job we play it right.
               We till the garden and fix up her
               house, she may even adopt our black
               asses.

     Elwood laughs.

                         TURNER (CONT'D)
               Well not you, you got family. I'd
               yessum her for a chance out of
               Nickel.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               That ain't no freedom. Director
               Hardee and his wife ain't supposed
               to use us like we're slaves.

                         TURNER
               All those guys on the school board
               have us do chores. Sometimes it's
               favors, sometimes it's for real
               money.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               It's against the law.

                         TURNER
               The law's one thing. You can march
               and wave signs around and change a
               law if you convince enough white
               people. I saw the college kids in
               Tampa with their nice shirts and
               ties sitting at the Woolworth's. I
               had to work, but they were out
               protesting. And it happened, they
               opened that counter. But I didn't
               have the money to eat there either
               way. Gotta change the economics of
               all this, too.

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               My grandma got me that lawyer, man.
               Make a move there, first.

                         TURNER
               The courts play both the white and
               the black. They move us around when
               they ready.



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                             65.
90   CONTINUED: (3)                                            90

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               We have to be knights. Checkmate.

                         TURNER
               How many people done that, El? Only
               four ways outta Nickel.

     Just then Harper appears, jogging across the lawn.

                         TURNER (CONT'D)
               A hour late. Fly still open.

     Elwood laughs.


91   INT. NICKEL - BARN - STALL/HIDING PLACE - 1966 - DAY (D52) 91

     Faint SOUND of a ball game.

     Elwood's POV, reading one of Mrs. Hardee's donated books in
     Turner's secret hiding place in a stall of the school's
     dilapidated horse barn. Light streams down through the slats.
     Turner's made a nest on the dirt floor among crates of
     industrial scrubbing powder, a pillow, and an army blanket.
     He's got a transistor radio ear plug in his ear, listening to
     a ball game.

                         TURNER
               What's it about?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               A British mother is trying to marry
               off her oldest daughter to keep
               their estate and title.

                         TURNER
               No one wants to marry her? She
               ugly?

                         ELWOOD (O.S.)
               She's described as having a
               handsome face.

                         TURNER
               Damn.

     Pause.

                         TURNER (CONT'D)
               I know my mother loved me. She just
               loved liquor more.

     Elwood looks over the top of his book at Turner.
                                                                66.


92    OMITTED                                                      92


92A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                           92A

      TBD, two children playing.


93    EXT. HARDEE HOUSE - POOL - 1966 - DAY (D53)                  93

      Turner's POV from underwater as he swims in the Hardee's
      pool. Through the surface he sees Mrs. Hardee sitting in a
      chaise longue in a one-piece bathing suit, a floppy sun hat,
      and the Jackie sunglasses. She is cooling her neck with a
      paper fan. Elwood dips a foot in to check the temperature.

                           MRS. HARDEE (O.S.)
                     (very faintly audible)
                Use the steps down here at the
                shallow end if you can't swim like
                your friend. Take your dungarees
                off.

      TURNER POV tracks Elwood as he gets up and walks to the
      shallow end. A beat, and Turner sees Mrs. Hardee quickly get
      up and walk across and out of FRAME, distressed.

      Elwood sits on the edge, his legs floating to the surface.
      Turner can see them from under the water. The scars on the
      back are raised into a terrible maze. He reaches out
      underwater, to touch one.


94    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1966 - DAY (D54)           94

      Turner's POV as Blakeley, tipsy, enters the dorm room with
      the monthly mail call. The boys are sitting on their beds,
      trading Negro League baseball cards, playing rummy. Elwood's
      writing in his notebook.

                          BLAKELEY
                    (Army style)
                Desmond! Chickie Pete! Elwood!

      Turner sees Elwood look up from his notebook and go to get an
      envelope. Chickie Pete with his bald spot gets there before
      him. Elwood's just about to take the envelope from Blakeley
      when the house man snatches it back. Faint SOUND of a flask
      sloshing somewhere in his pockets.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                              67.
94    CONTINUED:                                                94

                             BLAKELEY (CONT'D)
                       (alcohol on his breath)
                   Ain't seen you much lately Elwood.
                   You keepin' your nose clean?

                             ELWOOD
                   Yes sir, Mr. Blakeley.

                              BLAKELEY
                       (unexpectedly quotes Dr.
                        King)
                   "You may have grand designs and
                   great dreams for yourself, but if
                   God has decided that your lot is
                   sweeping streets, work that broom
                   like Michelangelo painted ceilings,
                   attack that gutter the way
                   Beethoven attacked his Ninth
                   Symphony. Be a bush if you can't be
                   a tree. If you can't be a highway,
                   just be a trail. If you can't be a
                   sun, be a star. Be the best of
                   whatever you are."

      He hands him the envelope and walks off.

      Elwood looks at the envelope and his whole face lights up. He
      tears it open and sinks onto his bunk already reading it.
      Some newspaper articles are included, an account of a Dr.
      King speech, and a color spread on the SPACE RACE. He starts
      to read the letter and his face clouds over.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                       (tentative; guilty)
                   Grandma ok?

                             ELWOOD
                   She says she visited and they
                   wouldn't let her see me. (reading)
                   "He's sick and can't have no
                   visitors." "What's wrong with him?"
                   "How the hell should I know, lady?"
                   (freaking out completely) How can
                   they do that! Sick? I'm sick?! Look
                   what they did to me!


95    OMITTED                                                   95


95A   OMITTED                                                  95A
                                                                68.


96   EXT. NICKEL - BOOT HILL - 1966 - DAY (D55)                   96

     Elwood's   POV as Turner leads him to the iron rings used to
     restrain   boys to two trees on Boot Hill. Elwood moves closer,
     drawn by   some discernible movement on them. There are ANTS
     crawling   in and around and on the iron.

                           TURNER
                 Bones'd break before they come
                 loose.

     Beat.

                           ELWOOD (O.S.)
                 They've grown into the heart of the
                 wood.


97   INT. NICKEL - BARN - STALL/HIDING PLACE - 1966 - DAY (D56) 97

     Turner POV. He and Elwood are hanging out in the secret
     hiding place in the stall of the old horse barn.

                           ELWOOD
                 My mother's watch.

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                 A deck of marked cards.

                           ELWOOD
                 Percy's purple heart. Well, he
                 threw it away. Feels like I lost
                 it, though.

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                 My big toenail.

     Beat.

                           ELWOOD
                 That's all you got?

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                     (joking)
                 Really got nothing left to lose,
                 ha.

                           ELWOOD
                 Makes you one dangerous mothaf-

                           GRIFF (O.S.)
                 -Yes, sir. (confused) Sir?

     They freeze. SOUND of people entering the barn, talking.


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                             69.
97   CONTINUED:                                                97

                            SPENCER (O.S.)
                  ...good sportsmanship means
                  sometimes letting the other team
                  win.

                                                       CUT TO:

     Elwood POV as he and Turner look through the gaps between the
     wooden boards of the stall. Griff and Spencer are visible
     standing in the barn.

                               SPENCER (CONT'D)
                  Sometimes.

                            GRIFF
                      (not getting it)
                  I suppose that's right, Mr.
                  Spencer.

                            SPENCER
                  Griff, are you receiving me
                  clearly? You gotta take a dive in
                  the third round.

                            GRIFF
                  You mean- throw the fight? Lose?
                  Sir.

                            SPENCER
                  Third round. Am I getting through
                  to you? You got that now?

                            GRIFF
                  Yessir, Mr. Spencer.

                            SPENCER
                  All right then. You know you can
                  beat him. That'll have to be
                  enough...

     Spencer herds Griff out of the barn.

                            SPENCER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                  ...spirit of the Season of Giving,
                  Griff.

     Turner looks at Elwood.

                            TURNER
                  Ain't that some shit?

                            ELWOOD (O.S.)
                  Don't people bet on this-



                                                       (CONTINUED)
                                                                70.
97    CONTINUED: (2)                                              97

                          TURNER
                    (angry)
                Every year. That match tides us
                through a whole 365 days of
                humiliations.


98    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - CLASSROOM - 1966 - DAY (D57)          98

      Elwood POV as he watches an ANT march along the window sill.

      He looks out the window, through the trees, to the campus
      statue that some kids are painting white, and beyond to the
      pristine buildings of the white boys' side of campus.


98A   OMITTED                                                    98A


98B   OMITTED                                                    98B


99    OMITTED                                                     99


100   INT. NICKEL - SMALL GYMNASIUM - BOXING MATCH - 1966 -      100
      NIGHT (N58)

      The roar of the crowd in the gym where the fight is already
      underway. SOUND of the bell ending round "1".

      From where he's seated in a row of chairs, Elwood's POV of
      SPENCER across the ring on the other side as he stands up and
      points into the crowd. Elwood turns to look where Spencer's
      pointing: to the lone pale(r) face of JAIME on the Black
      boys' side in the bleachers. In the row of chairs behind
      Spencer, Harper jumps out of his seat and bounds up into the
      bleachers.

      The black boys HOLLER at Harper, as Jaime, shrugging
      resignedly, is hauled over to the white boys' side.

      The student body is crammed into small bleachers on all sides
      of the ring and below them two rows of chairs are ringside,
      with some kids squatting on the floor. White boys are on one
      side and Black boys on the other.

      Elwood catches a glimpse of EARL at the table ringside with
      the trip-gong and the round number card displaying "2".
      BLAKELEY is seated with him at the table in front of a mic.
      The white REFEREE (30s) is talking with them. The two boxers
      are sweating and toweling on stools in their corners.



                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                 71.
100   CONTINUED:                                                  100

      The bell is RUNG. The fight resumes, round "2".

      Elwood's POV follows Jamie's move to the white side of the
      bleachers, the white boys clapping Jaime hard on the back,
      welcoming him as one of their own.

      The white boys start up a STOMPING with their feet on the
      bleachers, which is picked up on by the Black boys, the
      thunder bouncing off the walls as BIG CHET (white, huge)and
      GRIFF collide and joust in the ring.

      Through the out-of-focus legs and feet of the gladiators,
      Elwood's POV searches the faces on the white side, entranced
      by the froth and fury of their hate and enthusiasm.

                             WHITE BOY 3
                       (yelling out)
                   Send him to the undertaker, Big
                   Chet!

      Smug and sure, Spencer takes a swig from a silver flask he
      pulls from his jacket and surveys the crowd. His face settles
      into a focused scowl.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Turner's POV turning away from Elwood's profile, seated on
      chair beside him, toward the invigorated faces of the Black
      boys behind them. The combustion of this moment plays out in
      their hollers, their sky-pumped fists, the collective torrent
      of energy contorting their physical movements and gestures
      into a wild kinesthesia.

                             ELWOOD
                   Damn... (pause) look at Griff
                   strut.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                   If I got all this respect... when's
                   the next time fools who hate and
                   fear you are going to treat you
                   like Harry Belafonte?

      SOUND of thuds and thumps as gloves meet bodies, skin on
      sweating skin.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Abstracted CU of boys hollering.

                                                         CUT TO:




                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 72.
100   CONTINUED: (2)                                              100

      CU of a boy with his neighbor in a headlock, jumping up and
      down.

                                                          CUT TO:

      Abstracted CU of a boy's eyes full of haptic passion.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Do you think he'll knock him down?

                                                          CUT TO:

      Abstracted CU of a boy's knees moving up and down like a
      crank shaft.

                                                          CUT TO:

      CU of a boy's face suspended in a sublime hope.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                Turner, that's a hundred dollar
                bill!

                                                          CUT TO:

      Turner's wider angle POV, as he turns away from the crowd of
      rowdy boys to Elwood, who meets his gaze.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                Yep. Fat cats from all three
                counties. Stakes get higher every
                year.

                                                          CUT TO:

      Elwood's POV catches, as he turns away from Turner and spies
      across the ring and through the legs and bodies clashing in a
      blur, the tail end of a bet being placed in the fat cat
      section: a well-dressed white man hands a $100 bill to a
      neighboring patron. SPENCER, DIRECTOR HARDEE and MRS. HARDEE
      are beside them with a few Nickel staff.

                          TURNER (CONT'D)
                Cracker looks like Frankenstein.
                Square head, long arms. Look at
                those arms, man. Those things are
                pistons. Smoked hams.

      Through the ropes, Elwood watches Spencer's line of
      spectators across from them, their white faces cool and
      composed with excitement, relishing the bloodsport.

      SOUNDS of the fight. The crowd bellows and jeers.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                              73.
100   CONTINUED: (3)                                           100

      Elwood sees another White man lean over and whisper something
      into his neighbor's ear, prompting him to reaching into the
      breast pocket of his blazer and pull out a wad of cash, which
      he immediately passes to the whispering man, who passes it to
      the man beside him, who passes it then to the man who
      accepted the $100 bill earlier.

                          TURNER (CONT'D)
                Man, he's dancing and ducking... Go
                right at it! Stick, stick, stick
                and move'em.

      SHOUTS from directly behind them:

                          BLACK BOY 3 (O.S.)
                Griff's having ribs for dinner!

      SHOUTS in response:

                          WHITE BOY 4 (O.S.)
                C'mon Chet, spray that blood!

                          WHITE BOY 5 (O.S.)
                Knock those white teeth outta that
                black boy's mouth!

      SOUND of the bell. The two boys slink over to their
      respective corners. Elwood turns his attention away from the
      fat cats to Earl, who flips the round number card to "3",
      before reaching in his pocket, pulling out a wad of cash,
      beginning to count.

      Elwood's gaze returns to Spencer, who is lighting a cigar, as
      if he just closed the business deal of the century.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                Third round. This is it.

                          ELWOOD   (O.S.)
                Earl too, huh.

                          TURNER
                This is it El.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Turner's POV turning away from Elwood to look at the split
      crowd of black boys and white boys directly behind Earl, the
      line separating the two halves invisible, an interface none
      the less between two fates, two statuses of citizen.

                                                        CUT TO:




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                              74.
100   CONTINUED: (4)                                           100

      CU of a white boy mouthing "get that nigger" in slow motion
      and silently.

                                                        CUT TO:

      CU of a Black boy with both his hands pressing his face in
      from each side, distressed at the uncertain outcome of the
      final round.

                                                        CUT TO:

      CU of a white boy with his head tilted, his hand raised over
      his head, pulling on something invisible, miming hanging
      himself.

      SOUNDS of boxing and the crowd's roar.

                                                        CUT TO:

      CU of a Black boy's face partly obscured by his hands in a
      clasped position, almost praying, his gaze almost glazed over
      in a petrified worry.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Damn. You don't think... Griff
                could knock out Big Chet by
                accident?

                                                        CUT TO:

      Turner's POV in a wider shot of the half Black half white
      sections, turns to Elwood who again meets his gaze.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Elwood's POV turns to Spencer, whose attention on the fight
      appears the height of stoicism. His face menacing without
      effort, his eyes tracking the movements of the fighters as an
      apex predator would.

                          TURNER
                Jab! Jab! Roll that shoulder. Left,
                left hook, Griff!

      Director Hardee hands someone a cigar. Mrs. Hardee takes one
      and everyone watches her blow smoke. Elwood turns back to the
      ring, where ringside Black Mike hangs on the ropes.

                          BLACK BOY 3 (O.S.)
                Big Chet's gonna be toothless as my
                granny!




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                              75.
100   CONTINUED: (5)                                           100

                          CHICKIE PETE
                Witchdoctor give him the whole
                bucket of aspirin and he'll still
                have a headache!

                          WHITE BOY 3 (O.S.)
                Send him to the undertaker!

                          BLACK MIKE
                    (screaming at Big Chet)
                You knock-kneed piece of shit!

      The Referee kicks their hands away.

                          TURNER
                He's making it look good for sure.

      Elwood turns and looks again across the brown worn floor of
      the ring, through the blurred waltzing limbs of the boxers,
      to Spencer and his patrons. Spencer's expression is clouding,
      his cigar dangling out of his mouth, peevish.

                          TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                He's putting a hurt on that white
                boy at least before he goes down,
                makes me feel all right.

      Elwood shakes his head. He looks at Jaime, sitting calmly
      beside a stoic and controlled Harper. Jamie looks back at
      Elwood. A line of BLOOD starts slowly leaking from one of
      Jaime's nostrils.

      Suddenly the white side rises to their feet, the Black side
      following suit, as the steady increase of raw THUDS from the
      ring rises to the level of a rhythmic smashing.

                          COREY
                    (stuttering)
                KKKkkk's gonna be crying under
                their hoods all week!

      Elwood's POV is still fixed on Spencer, the noise ramps as a
      temporal threshold is crossed.

                          TURNER
                    (expecting Griff to throw)
                He's about to go. He's about to
                fall.

      Big Chet hauls off and squashes Griff's nose. The Black boys
      GROAN. But Griff doesn't drop.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                76.
100   CONTINUED: (6)                                             100

      Elwood's gaze leaves Spencer to whip over to the fat cats who
      are visibly concerned. They lean forward to look periodically
      at Spencer who stares at the fighters with a steaming rage.

                             TURNER   (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                Now.

      But instead, Griff hits Big Chet hard with some body blows.
      Chet stumbles backward, his feet partly obscuring Elwood's
      view of Spencer. A steady increase in thuds has crept into
      the soundscape: the SOUND of fist against wood, emanating
      from the left of Elwood.

      Elwood turns to look at Turner whose intensity is a   strangled
      pain. He looks down to see Turner punching the back   of the
      chair in front of them, alternating slowly: left...   right...
      left... right... left. His knuckles are bruised and   dotted
      with blood.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                ... Turner-

      A smashing, left... right... left... right... left...

      The Black boys ROAR.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                ...Turner!

      The SOUND of the fight, the crowd, their cheers, their
      stomps, the wet-leather pops of contact, all zero to a
      distant atmospheric drone, a unified hum pushed into the
      background, creating a sound vacuum around Elwood and Turner.
      Finally hearing his name, Turner turns and looks at Elwood.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Turner's POV as he stares back at his puzzled, concerned
      friend. He looks down at his knuckles. A HOLLOW BELL rings
      somewhere - the final bell. Turner fixes unflinchingly on
      Elwood's face. The SOUND of the match and crowd comes ROARING
      back.

                          ELWOOD (CONT'D)
                    (almost completely drowned
                     out; lips moving)
                This, isn't the fight.

      A beat. Turner nods almost imperceptibly, then turns back to
      the fight to see both boxers leaning exhaustedly in their
      corners, then looks at Elwood again who is also now looking
      in that direction.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                 77.
100   CONTINUED: (7)                                              100

                          ELWOOD (CONT'D)
                    (alarmed)
                Damn.

      Turner looks at Spencer, malevolent fury on his face. One of
      the white men, red-faced, reaches over and grabs his arm,
      barking something at him. Griff, as if suddenly realizing,
      lumbers across the ring to the Referee, who consults with the
      table man. The noise of the crowd drowns out his words.

      Black Mike jumps in the ring to support Griff.

      The Referee heads back to the center of the ring, grabbing
      Griff's wrist to lead him, where he's joined by Big Chet. He
      takes Griff's arm and thrusts it up into the air.

      Griff panics, breaks away from his friends and jumps down
      into the crowd, trying to move toward Spencer. It's no use,
      the Black boys are clearing the stands and swarming their
      champion. They smother and lift him.

                          GRIFF
                    (screaming to Spencer)
                I thought it was still the second!
                I thought it was the second!

      He's still screaming as the Black boys carry him out,
      CHEERING and WHOOPING. Griff is looking back over his
      shoulder at Spencer, tears pouring from his swollen eyes.

      FADE UP SOUND of:

      Adult Elwood humming White Christmas along with a radio.

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (humming only)
                I'm, I'm dream-ing, dreaming of a
                white, white Christmas. Just like
                the ones I used to know-wo...


101   INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN - HARLEM - 1968 - NIGHT (N-FF3)     101

      ... continuing over into Adult Elwood's (18) POV into the
      large industrial sink of a Harlem NY restaurant kitchen. One
      of his hands is underwater holding a plate up, and the other
      is washing it in a circular motion. The radio is on a shelf
      above him. Bustling restaurant kitchen SOUNDS all around him.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                 78.
101   CONTINUED:                                                  101

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (humming only)
                   ...Honey, it's where the treetops,
                   treetops glisten Little bitty,
                   little bitty, little bitty
                   children, they'll try to listen...

      He pauses to watch rainbows form on the surface of large
      soapsud bubbles.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                       (humming only)
                   ...To hear, hear for the sleigh
                   bells that are ringing in the snow-
                   wo-wo.


102   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DUSK (D59)           102

      Elwood POV watching some Black boys sitting on each other's
      shoulders circling a tall tree, garlanding Christmas tinsel
      and colored lights around it, in a slow, impressive spiral
      moving down the widening girth of the tree.


103   OMITTED                                                     103


104   OMITTED                                                     104


105   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1960S                                    105

      Color 8mm home movie footage (47 sec) of a Christmas morning,
      Black boys opening packages under a tree. Baseball gloves,
      red sweaters or socks, bowties, boxes of tin army men... They
      are boys from a nice house in a nice neighborhood where it's
      quiet at night and nightmare-less.

                             ASTRONAUT (V.O.)
                       (Apollo 8, December 24th
                        1968, orbiting the moon)
                   I hope that all of you back on
                   Earth can see what we mean when we
                   say it's a rather foreboding
                   horizon. A rather stark and
                   unappetizing looking place. We're
                   now going over one of our future
                   landing sites selected in this
                   smooth region called The Sea of
                   Tranquility.
                             (MORE)




                                                            (CONTINUED)
                                                                79.
105   CONTINUED:                                                 105
                             ASTRONAUT (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                   Smooth to make it easy for the
                   initial landing attempt, in order
                   to preclude having to dodge
                   mountains. Now you can see the long
                   shadows of the lunar sunrise.

      SOUND of the static and crackles of the transmission from
      Apollo 8, no voices, continues over into...


106   INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN - HARLEM - 1968 - NIGHT (N-FF3)     106

      ... and combines with the ever fainter background SOUNDS of a
      busy kitchen around Adult Elwood POV. His hands are
      underwater in a deep sink, watching one bubble in particular
      that has grown in size and stands above the others. He moves
      in a bit closer for a concentrated view of its curve.

      The sound of silence and static of the lunar broadcast
      continues for 10 seconds.


107   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1968                                     107

      The Apollo 8 live feed orbiting the moon. The audio continues
      through the three astronauts taking turns reading Genesis.

                             ASTRONAUTS (O.S.)
                   - In the beginning God created the
                   heaven and the earth. And the earth
                   was without form, and void; and
                   darkness was upon the face of the
                   deep. And the Spirit of God moved
                   upon the face of the waters. And
                   God said, Let there be light: and
                   there was light. And God saw the
                   light, that it was good: and God
                   divided the light from the
                   darkness.
                   - And God called the light Day, and
                   the darkness he called Night. And
                   the evening and the morning were
                   the first day.
                   - And God said, Let there be a
                   firmament in the midst of the
                   waters, and let it divide the
                   waters from the waters. And God
                   made the firmament, and divided the
                   waters which were under the
                   firmament from the waters which
                   were above the firmament: and it
                   was so. And God called the
                   firmament Heaven.
                             (MORE)


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 80.
107   CONTINUED:                                                  107
                             ASTRONAUTS (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   And the evening and the morning
                   were the second day.
                   - And God said, Let the waters
                   under the heavens be gathered
                   together unto one place, and let
                   the dry land appear: and it was so.
                   And God called the dry land Earth,
                   and the gathering together of the
                   waters called He the Seas: and God
                   saw that it was good.
                   - And so from the crew of Apollo 8,
                   we close with good night, good
                   luck, Merry Christmas, and God
                   bless all of you, all of you on the
                   good Earth.

      The broadcast ends, the Apollo 8 color roll jiggles into
      place:

                             WAITER (O.S.)
                   Saved 1968.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Ain't no saving 1968.


108   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - DAY (D60)            108

      Turner's POV from a distance, of the torso of an enormous red
      and white papier-mch Santa Claus, with outstretched arms
      and mittened hands, lying at the foot of a large oak tree.
      Head nowhere in sight.


109   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1966 - NIGHT (N60)          109

      Elwood POV standing near the base of a large tree waiting for
      something. He watches five boys walking in the darkness
      toward him down the large main drive of Nickel. In the
      background, three white boys equipped with flashlights are
      walking toward their side of campus. SOUND of distant voices
      fading in the night, some excitement before a general quiet
      falls across the campus.

      Then there's a WHOOPING as the Christmas lights decorating
      the campus are turned on. Elwood moves forward from the tree
      to get a better view and catches a glimpse of Turner, who is
      there with him.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                   The first Christmas here is the
                   hardest.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                              81.
109   CONTINUED:                                               109

      Green, red and white bulbs sketch a route of holiday cheer
      along the trees and the campus buildings. Far off in the
      dark, the big Santa - with his papier-mch head now on - is
      lit up and glowing.

      The sublime moment is interrupted by the Community Service
      van pulling up behind Elwood, headlights on. Harper is behind
      the wheel and looks at Turner, together with Elwood again, as
      he cruises by slowly on his way out of campus. A Santa hat is
      on his head.


110   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D61)            110

      Elwood POV from where he's seated at an empty picnic table
      he's staked out under a tree. Families are gathering at two
      or three other tables on this warm winter afternoon. It's a
      visiting day.

      Elwood sees Hattie before she sees him. She looks years
      older, walking slowly toward the area. She's thinner, her
      collar bones trace a line across her green dress.

      When she spots Elwood she halts briefly as Elwood gets up,
      and then hurriedly sits down across from him.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Nanna.

      They look at each other close, but she finds she can't hold
      his gaze.

                             COREY (O.S.)
                       (no stutter)
                   Can we squeeze in with y'all?

      Elwood looks up at Corey, but before he can answer, his
      MOTHER (20s), heavily made-up, hair teased 60s-style and
      manicured, smiles insecurely and sits down. They are LOUD and
      HAPPY beside Hattie, who is church-quiet.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   It's been a long wait for some good
                   news.

      Hattie nods, coughs (nervously).

                             HATTIE
                   Lyndon Johnson's carrying on
                   President Kennedy's civil rights
                   bill. And if that good old boy is
                   doing right, you know things is
                   changing. Be a whole different
                   thing when you come home, Elwood.
                             (MORE)

                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 82.
110   CONTINUED:                                                  110
                             HATTIE (CONT'D)
                   You pick up right where you left
                   off, with no more hassle.


                                ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Huh, yeah.

                             HATTIE
                   I'm sure Melvin Briggs will have
                   you. And those books you were
                   reading ain't gone nowhere.

                                ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Hmm.

                             HATTIE
                   I've been taking less work and
                   spending more time at the church.
                   And I told the trash men to be
                   careful with that big truck, the
                   way they block the road and so
                   early in the morning, when you can
                   really hear everyone get out of
                   bed. Well not everybody. The house
                   across the way burned down. Burned
                   a whole day straight. The smoke was
                   something awful.

      Corey's mother is jittery, looking at herself in a compact.

                             COREY
                   You look b-beautiful, mama.

      She tucks the compact away, shakes her head, then smiles
      unconvincingly.

      Elwood reaches across the table and takes Hattie's hands. Her
      fingers tremble, he stills them.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Nanna, what is it? What's wrong?

      A beat.

                             HATTIE
                   El, he's gone. Mr. Andrews, you
                   know, our lawyer who's so
                   optimistic about your appeal- I
                   went downtown to see him, I took
                   the bus. I had paid him $200 which
                   wasn't enough.
                             (MORE)




                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 83.
110   CONTINUED: (2)                                              110
                          HATTIE (CONT'D)
                But he was so adamant persuasive
                with Mr. Marconi that he and his
                wife kicked in another $100, and
                then that was all right.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                You mean he's gone... he didn't...
                after all this time...

                          HATTIE
                The landlord was showing the office
                to a dentist. When I asked for Mr.
                Andrews they just looked through me
                like I wasn't there neither. He
                picked up stakes to Atlanta without
                a word.

      Elwood's attention ebbs with his spirit... his gaze drifts...
      Hattie becomes blurry.

                          HATTIE (CONT'D)
                He took that $300. And he knows, he
                said, what we got on our hands is a
                "classic miscarriage of justice". I
                know we hoped to have you out of
                here by now and I think...

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                It's okay, Nanna.

                          HATTIE (O.S.)
                I let you down, El.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                I'm okay Nanna. I'm hanging in
                there.

                          HATTIE (O.S.)
                You got any friends? How about
                Turner?

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (taken aback)
                Turner? How d'you-

                          HATTIE
                    (oblivious)
                I didn't know how I was gonna get
                you that package, that day-

      Elwood's gaze slowly fixates on the pulsing of the blood
      vessel in his grandmother's neck.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                84.
110   CONTINUED: (3)                                             110

                          HATTIE (CONT'D)
                    (oblivious)
                -and there he was. I like him, he's
                polite, looked me in the eye. That
                was a real kindness...


111   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D61)           111

      Turner POV standing near a seated Elwood, watching as Elwood
      twists an oak leaf and pulls the leafy parts off bit by bit.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                I'm sorry, El. I don't know why I
                didn't give you that letter. I
                guess I was...

                          ELWOOD
                It's okay, Turner. Doesn't matter
                now anyway.

      He contemplates what remains of the leaf, the skeleton and
      stem. Four sections torn away. A fifth section of leaf is
      still there clinging to the stem, in the deafening silence.

      Then Elwood turns his head and looks up at Turner.

                                                           CUT TO:

      Elwood POV looking up at Turner's sorrowful face.


112   INT. WIDOWER APARTMENT - NEW YORK - 1975 - DAY (D-FF4)     112

      Adult Elwood POV looking down through an empty bed frame at
      the faded ghostly outline of a leaf, formed from being
      pressed a very long time against the floor.

      The bed starts to rise, as if levitating. Adult Elwood looks
      up to see his colleague LARRY (20s, burly, Black) wearing a
      jumpsuit that says Horizon Movers, picking up that side of
      the bed frame. Adult Elwood picks up his side and they move
      it from the bedroom, turning it sideways so it will fit
      through the door.

                          LARRY
                Elwood this might be solid brass,
                man. (beat) I got dibs on this.

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (shushing him)
                Shh... somebody died.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                 85.
112   CONTINUED:                                                  112

                             LARRY
                   In this bed?

      On their way through the apartment, they pass a WIDOWER
      (70s), bewildered with grief. A YOUNG WOMAN, presumably his
      daughter, takes him by the arm and tugs him gently out of
      their way. She resembles a younger Hattie.

                             WIDOWER
                       (softly; directly to Adult
                        Elwood as he passes)
                   But where will we rest?

      Adult Elwood looks back at them as he walks with the bed
      frame, not seeing their faces again.


113   OMITTED                                                     113


114   OMITTED                                                     114


115   EXT. STREET [UNDER PORTICO] - MARIANNA - 1967 - DAY (D62) 115

      Elwood POV is under a portico, looking up at himself and
      Turner in the reflective surface of its underside.

                             ELWOOD
                   We can walk around?

                             TURNER
                   We don't got to make a scene, but
                   yeah. Don't look scared.

      The white people of Marianna are eyeing them as they pass to
      and fro on the sidewalk, trying to account for the two
      unescorted Black boys in their state-issued uniforms but
      dismissing the thought that it's beyond their control.

                             ELWOOD
                   It's weird being out here.

                             TURNER
                   Wait until you're out-out.

      Turner looks around.

                             ELWOOD
                   How would you do it?

                             TURNER
                       (understanding the
                        question immediately)
                             (MORE)

                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                               86.
115    CONTINUED:                                               115
                              TURNER (CONT'D)
                    Well I wouldn't run into the swamp,
                    hide in there until the coast is
                    clear and hitch somewhere West or
                    North. That's how they get you. And
                    you can't wash no scent off, that's
                    only in movies.

       Beat.

                              ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    ... so what would you do?

                              TURNER
                    So I'd head out here into the free
                    world, snatch clothes from a wash
                    line. Head South, because they
                    ain't expecting it. Put as many
                    miles between me and the dogs as I
                    can, tire them out. The trick is
                    not doing what they know you going
                    to do.

                              ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    Yeah, well why wouldn't they know
                    you trying not to do what they
                    think you going to-

       Turner throws his arm around Elwood, pulling him closer, and
       looks up into the reflective surface above them.

                              TURNER
                    -and don't take no one with you.
                    Not one of those dummies. They'll
                    take you down with them.

                                 ELWOOD
                           (smiling)
                    Hmm.

                              TURNER
                        (smiling)
                    Gotta go it alone.

       Elwood chuckles and they walk off, emerging from under the
       portico into the sun.


115A   EXT. MAIN STREET SIDEWALK - MARIANNA - 1967 - DAY (D62) 115A

       Turner's POV walking with Elwood, sees Elwood's demeanor
       change as he suddenly notices something on the other side of
       the street. He darts into the road, moving through the
       traffic diagonally across the street. A car HONKS at him.



                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                               87.
115A   CONTINUED:                                              115A

                              TURNER (O.S.)
                        (panicking)
                    Elwood! What-

       He follows and sees the NOTEBOOK fall out of Elwood's jacket
       into the road.

                                                          CUT TO:

       Elwood'S POV rushing, maneuvering around the cars, toward
       something on the opposite sidewalk. A few HONKs, as then he
       slows down and stops abruptly at the sight of DR. MARTIN
       LUTHER KING, JR. being abruptly picked up by a white man in a
       suit and tie and carried off. He's a cardboard cut-out.

                                                          CUT TO:

       Turner's POV of Elwood looking amazed and confounded as he
       catches up to him.

                              TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                    What happened to not making a
                    scene? You think Rev'rend King's
                    out here in Mariana opening
                    supermarkets?

       He holds out the notebook, which Elwood practically grabs
       from him as Turner pulls Elwood along the sidewalk.

                              TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                    Why you got to carry that around?
                    Anyone'd think you a student.

                              ELWOOD
                    I've been writing everything down.

                              TURNER (O.S.)
                    Everything what?

                              ELWOOD
                    Our `community service' (beat) The
                    deliveries, the pay-offs, the yard
                    work, the chores. The names of
                    everybody and the dates.

                              TURNER (O.S.)
                    Why would you do a thing like that?

                              ELWOOD
                    You told me. No one else can get me
                    out of here, just me.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                88.
115A   CONTINUED: (2)                                           115A

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                 Nobody ever listens to me, why you
                 got to start?

                           ELWOOD
                 It's not an obstacle course,
                 Turner. You can't go around it, you
                 have to go through it. Walk with
                 your head up no matter what they
                 throw at you.

                                                           CUT TO:

       Elwood's POV of Turner.

                           TURNER
                 I get it, you mad and need to get
                 it off your chest, that's cool, but-

                           ELWOOD (O.S.)
                 -I'm telling you. There's a fifth
                 way out: Get. Rid. Of. Nickel.

                           TURNER
                 They put us in the goddamn ground!

       Turner jabs at Elwood. SOUND of a HONKING car HORN.

                           TURNER (CONT'D)
                 They going to take you out back,
                 and bury your ass. God! Then take
                 me out back, too. Elwood I vouched
                 for you man, the hell is wrong with
                 you?!

       He watches Turner furiously walk off, then follows him. SOUND
       of two loud, quick HONKED HORN blasts. The street noise
       increases.

       A WHITE WOMAN pushing a pram down the sidewalk toward them
       gets visibly panicked and pulls the pram cover over her baby.
       The HORN is insistent.

       Turner and Elwood split up to walk around the carriage,
       Turner ahead on one side, Elwood slightly behind on the
       other. Harper pulls up on the other side of the road. He's
       the one HONKING the horn, gesticulating urgently for them to
       come back and get in.


116    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - REC ROOM - 1967 - DAY (D63)           116

       Turner's POV, standing over a chessboard, as he holds out
       first one clenched fist then another to Turner.


                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                89.
116   CONTINUED:                                                 116

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   This, or this?

      Turner tilts his head up, looks at Elwood, then looks back
      down at Elwood's balled fists.

      Turner abruptly grabs one of Elwood's fists and PUNCHES him
      with it. Elwood staggers backwards, stunned, his hands drop
      the chess pieces he was holding. They are both black knights.


117   INT. LIVING AREA - TENEMENT APARTMENT - NYC - 1975 - DUSK 117
      (D-FF5)

      Adult Elwood (25) POV of a TV screen in the living area of a
      tenement apartment. The local NYC station is playing the
      sequence of images of 1970s New York landmarks at night that
      opens the "Million Dollar Movie" of the week.

      SOUNDS of the big city outside. It's a wintry day, the
      radiator is CLANKING. Faint SOUND, almost an hallucination,
      of a woman's voice calling out "Elwood! Elwood!"

                             DENISE (O.S.)
                       (entering)
                   You hear me outside?

      His girlfriend DENISE (20s, Black) enters the apartment and
      crosses his eye-line, going into the kitchen with the paper
      bags of groceries she's carrying.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   What?

      He gets up and turns down the volume.

                             DENISE
                   This rat ran across my feet and I
                   screamed. That was me.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Denise. Hathor. Scared of a little
                   ole rodent.

                             DENISE
                   Sh-, was big as a dog. (beat)
                   Barked like one too.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Maybe it was a dog.

      ADULT ELWOOD uncrinkles a flyer from a laundromat.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                 90.
117   CONTINUED:                                                  117

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   Found one, a `67 Econoline. Needs a
                   new finish, but the guys on 125th
                   owe me one. I can supplement the
                   Horizon shifts with my own jobs.
                   Weekends too. And bring on Larry.

      Beat.

                             DENISE
                   You think you can really count on
                   him?

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Larry bellyaching about this child
                   support is about as dependable as
                   US Steel. If there is one thing
                   he'll do, it's work.

      Beat.

                             DENISE
                   That's great El. It's really
                   happening. What'll you call it?

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Not sure yet, something easy to
                   find in the Yellow Pages.

      She comes over with a steaming hot cocoa and kneads the spot
      on his back where it hurts.

                             DENISE
                   There's some rum in that. I got us
                   some sandwiches, too.

      She reaches for the TV trays next to the couch.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Baby, I'll get it.

                             DENISE
                   But your back?

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Just keep those hands ready.

      He puts the trays together.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   Whoever invented these deserves a
                   Nobel prize. Now if they can just
                   work on this-



                                                            (CONTINUED)
                                                                 91.
117   CONTINUED: (2)                                              117

      The Defiant Ones is playing on the TV.

                          DENISE
                Oh it already started.

                           ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                "You're married to me, now - here's
                the ring."

                          DENISE
                What?


118   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                            118

      Full-screen. The Defiant Ones: two escaped convicts, Sidney
      Poitier and Tony Curtis, are bound together and arguing.
      Poitier suggests the exact opposite of what Turner proposed
      to Elwood about escape.

                           SIDNEY POITIER
                     (on the TV)
                You're married to me, all right,
                joker, and here's the ring. But I
                ain't goin' South on no honeymoon
                now.

      He's holding up the chains that bind him to Tony Curtis.

                          DENISE (O.S.)
                You should watch what you say, El.
                (beat) I'd marry Sidney Poitier.


119   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - 1970S                                    119

      Color footage of Black boys playing chess in Washington
      Square Park NYC in the 1970s.


120   INT. COMMUNITY SERVICE VAN - GROUNDS - NICKEL - 1967 -      120
      NIGHT (N64)

      Elwood's POV from the front seat of the Community Service van
      as they drive along a gravel road through fog on the Nickel
      Grounds. Harper pulls up to a padlocked storehouse. Turner
      gets out and walks away.

                          HARPER (O.S.)
                Where's he going?

                           ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (calling after him)
                Turner!...


                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                              92.
120   CONTINUED:                                               120

      He ignores Elwood.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   Turner! (yelling) You have the key?

      Turner keeps walking. Harper gets out the driver's side,
      steps up on the floor of the van to lean on the top.

                              HARPER
                       (sharply)
                   Turner! Get your nig- (restarts)
                   get your ass back over here. You
                   have the key or not? I'm tired of
                   your shit.

      Turner comes back, looking straight at Elwood only and SMACKS
      the key on the dashboard, then turns on his heel and stalks
      off.

                             HARPER (CONT'D)
                       (muttering in disbelief)
                   Goddamn baby. Waste of time, man.
                   Head full of stump water.

      Elwood takes in Harper's fury.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Give him a break.

                             HARPER
                       (whipping his head around
                        to him)
                   What are you, his girlfriend?


121   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1967 - NIGHT (N65)       121

      Turner POV awakening to the ROAR of the White House fan. He
      looks over to Elwood's bed across the room, and it's empty.

      He walks across the room, looks under the bed, catching a
      glimpse of the legs of someone who is sliding out and
      climbing up to the top on the other side. Turner steps back
      and sees a GROWN MAN climbing into Elwood's bed. After a
      beat, the man rolls off the other side of the bed, crawling
      back under, and Elwood, from the opposite side, climbs up and
      replaces him.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                       (shocked)
                   El... (beat) Elwood.

      Turner looks into the wide-awake, alert face of Elwood on the
      bed, but receives no reciprocal acknowledgement.


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 93.
121   CONTINUED:                                                  121

      Elwood seems to take a half-second nap, eyes closing in
      repose, then he pops awake and rolls off the bed and under it
      again. No sooner does he disappear than the Grown Man rolls
      up from the other side and takes his place.

                             TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                       (afraid)
                   Elwood? Elwood?

      The Grown Man does not appear to see him. Turner slowly backs
      away and gets a wider view of the room, and realizes that
      this surreal rotation choreography is happening in EVERY bed
      with boys and men spanning all ages.


122   OMITTED                                                     122


123   INT. BAR - NEW YORK - 1988 - DAY (D-FF6)                    123

      Adult Elwood (38) POV seated on a stool watching a TV above
      the bar that's showing the end of the NY Marathon. A steady
      stream of sinewy runners is finishing. TV camera crews in
      small vehicles trail them, white cops on motorcycles.

      The spectators lining the course are all types of people:
      Black, white, Puerto Rican, rich, poor, etc. They stand
      pressed against the blue wooden police barriers, some on the
      shoulders of daddies or boyfriends. SOUND of wolf whistles,
      air horns, ghetto blasters.

      SOUND of other people in the bar cheering them on, laughing.

      A man [ADULT CHICKIE PETE] enters somewhere behind Adult
      Elwood and ambles to the far end of the bar, in Adult
      Elwood's peripheral vision. He leans over to ask the
      BARTENDER (20s, white, pumped) a question, and gets a
      negative shake of the head. Deflated, ADULT CHICKIE PETE
      glances in Adult Elwood's direction.

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                       (surprised)
                   Hey... (moving closer) Hey, man!

      Adult Elwood turns his head slowly away from the TV to take
      the full measure of the man moving toward him, on crackhead
      alert. The man is wearing a green Jets sweatshirt and red
      track pants a size too big - borrowed.

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                       (grinning)
                   Hey man! Long time, long time! How
                   ya been!


                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                94.
123   CONTINUED:                                                 123

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (guarded; trying to place
                        him)
                   Aight.

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                   It's me, man, Pete Evans... Chickie
                   Pete. How you doing?

      Bingo.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   Chickie Pete. You look good.

      He has that too-raw thing people have when they just get out
      of a clinic. Adult Chickie Pete slaps him five.

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                   Damn. Shit man. Been ages! Beer? On
                   me?

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (shifting to stand)
                   I got an early morning-

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                   Naw naw man, you gotta let me buy
                   you a beer.

      Before Adult Elwood can respond, he signals the bartender,
      holds up two fingers.

      Adult Elwood's POV sweeps the bar. Among the regular patrons
      (5), there are two boys (aged 8 & 10) and a man in running
      gear with marathon race bibs on, as if they took a detour
      from the course and are now watching their fellow runners
      finish on the TV.

      He follows their gaze back to the TV screen. Only the
      stragglers are coming in now, half-walking or stumbling
      across the finish line, not so much running the course as
      running deep into their own character. A few have people
      waiting to wrap them in thermal foil blankets, most don't.

      The bartender placing pints on coasters in front of them
      brings Adult Elwood's focus back to Adult Chickie Pete, who's
      been talking.

                             ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                   ...I mighta played professional, if
                   things had been different.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   You think so?


                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                                95.
123   CONTINUED: (2)                                             123

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                    (smacks his lips)
                For sure, man, I used to...

      Adult Chickie Pete gently brings his hands up in a playing
      motion, closes his eyes, tilts his head back and sways to an
      imaginary TRUMPET solo. He looks truly majestic, a radiating
      smile between lip movements. SOUND of a trumpet playing.

      Adult Elwood glances to see if the bartender has noticed the
      horn. It stops as Adult Chickie Pete drops his now shaking
      hands to the bar, pops his knuckles, and nostalgically sways
      his head as the dream disappears back into the never-was.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                ... I coulda been in a funk band,
                an orch-est-ra! Ha. Haydn, Bach
                Vivaldi, backing up Miles... A
                doctor inventing shit that saves
                lives. I got ideas man. Nickel.
                Damn. You know, I still remember
                the periodic table of elements.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                       (fascinated)
                Huh?

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                It's how I got started cooking.
                You know one brotha dreamed that
                whole thing up. Dmitri Mendeleev or
                some shit. Ha. (beat) He also made
                that Russian vodka 40 proof. I'm
                not thankful for those times. That
                was a long time ago. My hands man.

      He holds up two crabbed fingers. These are not the same
      inspired hands of a moment ago.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                I just spent 30 days drying out.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Oh...

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                It's okay I can handle it now. I
                always drank. Then it was like the
                more I tried to settle down, the
                more I got blotto every night.
                Couldn't sleep in the dark. Still
                can't sleep in the dark.
                          (MORE)



                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                              96.
123   CONTINUED: (3)                                           123
                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                Last May I got into it with this
                guy, the judge says either jail or
                a program, no choice at all there.
                I'm living with my sister in
                Harlem. She's letting me stay while
                I figure out my next move. I've
                always liked it up there. But shit
                man, you know Chickie Pete gon' be
                awright. If it's one thing Nickel
                taught me, it's how not to die. Ha.
                (beat) What you up to?

                           ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                I got a moving company, trucks,
                employees.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                My man! Moving on up! You got a
                lady?

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                No. I mean, I did, but it didn't
                work out. "Denise." She said I had
                a lotta work to do on myself.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                I hear you, I hear you. Hard to
                find somebody who could understand.

                          ADULT ELWOOD
                Yeah, I'm still looking for the
                "one". Maybe some day.

      Adult Chickie Pete orders another beer, outpacing him as the
      bartender serves two underage BLONDE CO-EDs first.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                You seen any of the guys? I've ran
                into some over the years. Black
                Mike's a crook, Nelson's strung
                out, Desmond lost an arm in `Nam.
                Yeah. You got out in `67?

      Beat.

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (incredulous)
                You don't remember?

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                Remember what?




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                              97.
123   CONTINUED: (4)                                           123

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (sore now)
                You really don't remember?

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                What? Shit, I remember what they
                did to Griff. Sshhitt. What they
                did to me. (beat) When they stuffed
                that kid in the big dryer. (dark
                chuckle to himself) And the one
                they made eat a lightbulb, ha. You
                know what I remember?! The effing
                ghost... man, slipping on skin,
                flesh, whatever the hell it was in
                the shower. Yeah. What else you
                want me to remember?

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (gate firmly shut)
                -Nothing. Time served. And they
                kicked me out. (beat) I went up to
                Atlanta and then trained it going
                north. You know, been here since
                `68. Twenty years.

      He drains his glass. All this time he's taken it as a given
      that he was a Nickel legend.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                Yeah, that's nice. Everybody's
                welcomed here... what happened to
                that kid you used to hang around
                with all the time?

      Beat.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Which kid?

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                The kid, you know- y'all thought
                that hiding place was so secret.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Hmm.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                Gotta take a leak, it'll come back
                to me.

      He goes off to the bathroom, makes a remark to the coeds at a
      table. They laugh at him when he goes into the men's room.




                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                98.
123   CONTINUED: (5)                                             123

      An ambulance goes by outside and in the dark mirror behind
      the liquor, Adult Elwood has a blurred vision of himself, and
      WE SEE HIM for the first time as well, outlined in a bright
      red, a shimmering aura that marks him. The entire bar lights
      up with the fluttering of blue and red.

      He sweeps up a napkin and, one handed,   quickly rolling it
      into a thin tortilla, kneading it over   in his palm with
      intense pressure- is suddenly mad that   an idiot like Chickie
      Pete is still breathing and his friend   isn't.

      Adult Chickie Pete claps him on the shoulder. He turns.

                          ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                I got to go, man.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                No no, I hear you, me too. (pause)
                I don't want to ask. But if you're
                looking for a hand, I could use the
                job. I'm sleeping on a couch.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Right.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                You have a card?

      Adult Elwood pulls out his wallet, opens it and glances at
      his ACE Movers business card: Mr. Elwood Curtis, President.
      Then snaps it shut before Adult Chickie Pete sees it.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                Not on me.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE
                I can handle the work, is what I'm
                putting out there.

      He writes up his sister's phone number on a red bar napkin.

                          ADULT CHICKIE PETE (CONT'D)
                You ring me up- for the old days.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                I will.

      Adult Elwood looks at Adult Chickie   Pete as he leaves, sees
      the familiar shape of his bald spot   on the back of his head.
      He considers whether to mention the   bar tab, then reaches
      into his wallet, and slaps a $20 on   the bar.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                99.
123   CONTINUED: (6)                                             123

      As he turns back toward the closing door, he sees an
      ALLIGATOR TAIL slipping out. He walks out after it, tossing
      the red napkin.


124   OMITTED                                                     124


125   INT. NICKEL - INTAKE BUILDING - 1967 - DAY (D66)            125

      Turner POV of the boys lining up in the basement of the
      intake building, getting fresh uniforms from Nickel staff
      under the oversight of Blakeley, who is unusually sober.

                          BLAKELEY
                You boys mess up, it's your ass.
                You know Mr. Spencer will have it
                in for you if he catches your shirt
                untucked or your dirty drawers
                hanging out of a footlocker.

      Turner scans a wall of open cubbyholes with the old clothes
      of boys when they first arrived.

      Blakeley walks past handing out a few shoe rags.

                          BLAKELEY (CONT'D)
                They do this inspection shit, we
                counting on you. Spit-shine `em
                good.


126   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D66)            126

      Turner POV as he walks around the outside of a building
      that's being painted. SOUND of a paint can falling from the
      scaffolding behind him, accompanied by boys' voices.

      Still walking, he does a 180 degree turn to look behind him.
      Strangely there's no one there.

      He turns back around and almost immediately THREE IDENTICAL
      BLACK BOYS come around the corner of the building toward him,
      covered in Dixie White paint. The boys don't appear to see
      him. He freezes and stares at them as they pass by.


127   INT. ADULT ELWOOD'S APARTMENT - NY - 2018 - DAY (D-FF7)     127

      Adult Elwood's POV of an image on a computer screen:

      A color newspaper photograph in the local Marianna newspaper
      of a VERY OLD WHITE MAN, leaning on a cane on his porch.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                               100.
127   CONTINUED:                                                 127

      The headline reads: "Good Citizen of the Year". The man is
      decrepit but Spencer's cold steel eyes are unmistakable.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   They're asking people to come
                   forward.

      SOUND of a mouse click.

                                                         CUT TO:

      A group of Nickel Boys, in spotless, pressed, regular clothes
      (not uniforms), hanging out together on the porch of a large
      Southern home with white columns.

                             MILLIE
                   Babe, you found all this?

      SOUND of a mouse click.

                                                         CUT TO:

      A group of Nickel Boys in uniform, doing manual labor.

                             ADULT ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   They're digging. I'm digging.

      SOUND of a mouse click.

                                                         CUT TO:

      A GPR image, bright pulsing colors of blue, green and pink,
      of GRAVES found in the grounds of Nickel Academy.


128   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D66)           128

      Turner's POV as he hauls a bucket of tools out of the back of
      the Community Service van and brings them to Harper, who is
      snappily dressed and leaning against the side of the truck,
      striking a match and lighting a cigarette like he's James
      Dean. Turner bends to set the bucket down beside Harper's
      feet when there's a BRIGHT FLASH and click.

      Turner straightens and turns to see a State Government WHITE
      PHOTOGRAPHER, face obscured behind a Crown Graphic camera and
      its distinct bellows, step forward, snapping another. Turner
      moves his hand up to his face in reflex. The flash bulb is
      blinding. Harper coolly smokes, and it's suddenly clear he's
      been striking a pose.
                                                                101.


129   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DINING HALL - 1967 - DAY (D66)        129

      Turner's POV seated at a table in the spick and span dining
      hall, newly decorated by placards with messages of
      inspiration and encouragement. The boys are looking smart
      with fresh haircuts, uniforms, belts and gleaming shoes,
      elated by the kind of meal they never get: fried chicken,
      yellow corn cobs, mashed potatoes, steaming rolls and bright
      red apples on their trays.

                          DESMOND
                    (shoveling food)
                Ain't eaten like this since I don't
                know when. (grabbing another roll)
                They should inspect this place all
                the time.

                          BLACK MIKE
                Nobody talking now. Eat.

      They're all digging in- plates being scraped, forks pinging
      the metal trays. Turner's food is untouched before him, as
      he surveys the circus. For him, it's an abomination.

      Blakeley enters through the cafeteria door and stops with a
      large tray stacked with small round cardboard containers.

      Half of the dining hall reorients to this sight.

                          BOYS
                    (all at once)
                ICE CREAM!!!!!!!

      A chorus of "hoorays!" Some boys jump out of their seats,
      others look manically at their peers to confirm reality.

                          BLAKELEY
                Keep it down! You want them to
                think this is some kind of circus
                we're running here? (muttering)
                Y'all act like you never had ice
                cream before.

      They haven't. At Nickel. But the bribe does its job and
      Nickel appears like a joyful place.

      Turner, nauseated by the ruse, looks across the dining hall
      and finds Elwood, like a mirror, likewise sickened and
      returning his gaze. Turner shakes his head at the tragedy.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Elwood's POV, meeting Turner's gaze and shaking his head with
      the same sense of tragedy.


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                             102.
129   CONTINUED:                                               129

      He is sitting with boys half his age, finding the sight of
      them digging into the ice cream with little wooden paddles
      unbearable.

      Elwood gets up. Across the room, Turner is watching him like
      a hawk. When Elwood gets up, Turner does, too.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Turner's POV, as he swiftly follows Elwood.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                   What you gonna do? (beat) Elwood...

      Elwood keeps walking, doesn't turn around as Turner pursues.

                             TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   What you gonna do?

      Elwood keeps walking.

                             TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   What you think they going to do?
                   You think they going to put your
                   picture on the cover of Life
                   magazine?

      Elwood keeps walking.

                             TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   You think anyone cares what's going
                   on at Nickel?

      Elwood keeps walking.

                             TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   This is just one place. There are
                   Nickels all over this country.

      Elwood spins on him now.

                             ELWOOD
                   How long we got to keep murdering
                   ourselves?!

      Turner takes a step back, shocked.

                             ELWOOD (CONT'D)
                   -It's on me Turner. I got this.
                                                                103.


130    EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D66)           130

       Turner POV from a distance, of a wandering Black boy in
       ragged, soiled clothes stumbling down from Boot Hill. From
       the distance the figure is hard to make out. Turner turns and
       begins walking away but stops and looks back. The boy is
       standing still, looking straight up to the sky.


130A   OMITTED                                                   130A


131    EXT. NICKEL - FIELD - BLEACHERS - 1967 - DAY (D66)         131

       Elwood POV from up on a scaffold next to the bleachers on the
       field, which are turned upward on their side, repairing and
       painting planks with some of the other boys. He hammers down
       hard on a nail three times, forcing it flush against the new
       plank of wood. The contrast is sharp between it and the old
       splintery one below.

       At the SOUND of cars turning onto the Nickel campus, he turns
       his head quickly. A 100 nails bounce off the stands below.

                           DESMOND (O.S.)
                     (sucking his teeth)
                 What the hell.

       Elwood looks down at Desmond working below, dodging the rain
       of nails from the box he's knocked over.

       Elwood now clocks THREE INSPECTORS walking up the cement
       path, pointing at this or that. They pass the White House
       without a glance, pass a basketball court where some white
       boys are playing, pass a makeshift baseball diamond,
       approaching the football end of the field.

       The portly one looks like Jackie Gleason, and the tall one
       like JFK: white teeth, tan and the haircut. The man in the
       middle is practically a human mouse. They wear hats, but
       their jackets are off and their short sleeve shirts and
       clipped black ties make them look more NASA than G-men.

       They're escorted by JAIME. Elwood starts to reorient to the
       thought:

       Maybe it's possible.

                                                            CUT TO:

       Turner's POV from a scaffold near the set of bleachers
       directly across the field from the ones Elwood is repairing.
       He also spots that the Inspectors are escorted by Jaime.



                                                            (CONTINUED)
                                                               104.
131   CONTINUED:                                                 131

      He looks across to Elwood and sees Elwood realize the
      opportunity: maybe it's possible.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                       (to himself)
                   Elwood.

      He sees Elwood descend the scaffold ladder. Sees him step
      around Black Mike who is awkwardly setting a new pine plank
      into place. Sees that Elwood has the right angle for the
      interception and is on the move. He's fifty yards away, when-

                                                           CUT TO:

      Elwood's POV as he moves forward, focused on intercepting the
      inspectors, when-

                             HARPER (O.S.)
                   Hey Elwood.

      Elwood doesn't register the voice as directed to him. He's
      ten yards away now. Focused on JFK in the center.

                             HARPER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                   Elwood!

      Elwood stops in his tracks, turning to see Harper.

                             HARPER (CONT'D)
                   Hold on a minute, Elwood.

                             ELWOOD (O.S.)
                   What is it Mr. Harper?

      Elwood watches the men walk past a few yards behind Harper.

                             HARPER
                   I need you to head up to the farms
                   and find Mr. Gladwell. Those men
                   from the State aren't heading up
                   there today. They're going to send
                   some other experts for that. You
                   find him and tell him he can relax.

      Elwood turns to where Harper points, up a dirt road that
      leads to the farms.

                             ELWOOD
                       (talking too fast)
                   I like the bleacher repair. We
                   still need to paint, too. Can one
                   of the little kids go?
                             (MORE)



                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                             105.
131   CONTINUED: (2)                                           131
                          ELWOOD (CONT'D)
                I don't even know what Mr. Gladwell
                looks like, Mr. Harper, sir. Sir,
                I'd rather work on the bleachers.

                          HARPER
                    (pissed)
                Acting crazy today, all of you.
                He's got a straw hat and a farmer
                tan. You do what I asked you to do,
                and on Friday it's back to usual.

      He stalks off.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                I'll do it.

      Elwood turns. Turner runs up beside him.

                          ELWOOD (O.S.)
                    (exasperated)
                What, Turner. What?

                          TURNER
                That notebook you got in your
                pocket. I'll get it to them, I'll
                do it. Look at you, you look sick.

      Elwood hesitates. A deep tremor runs through him. He looks at
      Turner.

                          TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                I can slip it in their car window
                when they're not looking. They
                won't even see.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Turner's POV. Elwood tries to contain his emotion, reaches in
      his back pocket and gives Turner the notebook, all his
      anguished hope in this moment. Then he turns, and runs.
      Turner watches as Elwood runs towards the dirt road up to the
      fields, toward the horizon.


132   EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY (D66)         132

      Turner POV from inside the Nickel Community Service van,
      watching the three Inspectors and Hardee lean into each other
      now that the State inspection is complete- conversing,
      laughing, almost merging as they take their leave...

      JFK, who is holding his hat, flicks it so it rolls up on his
      arm and onto his head. The men all laugh: a well-oiled,
      surreally choreographed, impenetrable Good Ole Boy machine.


                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                                 106.
132    CONTINUED:                                                  132

                              TURNER (O.S.)
                        (to himself)
                    Goddam... C'mon. Now or never.


132A   EXT. CURTIS HOME - FRENCHTOWN - 1967 - DAY (D-FF8)         132A

       Adult Elwood (17) POV as his hand KNOCKS on the front door.
       SOUND of footsteps within slowly approaching.

       Hattie cracks opens the door, peeks out through the gap where
       the door is chained. She quickly pulls the door shut. SOUND
       of her sliding the chain off.

       A beat.

       She opens the door wide now. She stands there, looking at
       him. Her eyes well, she starts to tremble with emotion.


133    EXT. NICKEL ACADEMY - BOOT HILL - 1967 - DAY (D66)          133

       Elwood POV, walking, taking the long way back on the trail
       that circumnavigates Boot Hill. Then he steps off the path
       and walks through. Past the iron links embedded in the tree
       trunks. He is slow with his steps...

       Postponing the inevitable consequences ahead, he starts
       whistling the Gospel song "I Love the Lord, He Heard my Cry"
       to give himself courage.

       A breeze rustles through Boot Hill, swaying tree branches. In
       the distance ahead some fallen leaves spiral upward briefly
       in a wind eddy.


134    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - SCHOOL HALLWAY - 1967 - DAY (D66)     134

       Scene is B/W.

       Turner POV walking down a school hallway when he encounters
       the skinny, frail MULE. It stands there with a long piece of
       straw in its mouth.

       It looks at Turner, chewing the straw.

       Unsure it's really there, Turner moves toward it and strokes
       the animal, then moves closer and grasps its mane, slowly
       twisting it to be sure it's real.

       The mule looks at him, as if he's done something wrong.
                                                             107.


135   INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - DORMITORY - 1967 - DUSK (D66)        135

      Turner POV, in the middle of a card game. Other boys are
      hanging out.

                          JAIME (O.S.)
                    (arriving)
                Compas-

      Turner turns as Jaime enters, having run from the white side
      of campus.

                          JAIME (CONT'D)
                They will take him tonight.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                Who? Elwood? Shit! I told him this
                would happen!

      He springs to his feet and goes to Desmond and Mike.

                          TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                    (alarmed)
                I didn't hear nobody out for ice
                cream? When did they get him?

      The other boys look at him, grim.

                          BLACK MIKE
                They got him right after lunch.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                Where is he?

      Mike points upward.

                            DESMOND
                Sweatbox.

      He also points upward.

                          TURNER (O.S.)
                He's been in there all day?

      Turner slowly looks up to the ceiling, except there is no
      ceiling... only a pitch dark sky, like he's looking up into
      the heart of the universe. There is the seed of a faint
      SOUND... a human-engine screaming... and everything in the
      room begins subtly vibrating.
                                                               108.


136    INT. NICKEL - ATTIC SWEAT BOX - 1967 - DUSK (D66)         136

       Elwood POV in darkness inside the sweatbox in the attic above
       the dorm. The vibration increases gradually with the SOUND of
       the human-engine SCREAM escalating and transforms into a
       deeper ROAR... like the SOUND of a passenger jet falling in a
       death spiral... keening and careening toward Earth...


137    OMITTED                                                   137


137A   OMITTED                                                  137A


138    ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          138

       Mules and men, toppling, uprooting a colossal Southern tree.


139    INT. NICKEL ACADEMY - SWEAT BOX - 1967 - NIGHT (N66)      139

       Elwood's POV in the darkness of the sweat box,
       claustrophobic, roving along the walls. SOUND of the door to
       the stairwell in the attic scraping against the floor. Faint
       footsteps outside. A shadow on the wall moves as a figure
       outside blocks the little light coming into the space.
       Elwood shifts, as if bracing himself. The bolt slides.

       Light enters the darkness. There's a slim silhouette in the
       doorway that backs away from the initial stench.

                                                           CUT TO:

       Turner's POV as Elwood's head emerges from the sweat box. He
       leans, like his head is too heavy for his neck, against the
       doorframe.

       In the dim light, Turner glimpses the graffiti etched in the
       walls over the years. The desperate scratching and markings
       of blind creatures trying to see into themselves in the dark.

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                     (whispering)
                 They're going to take you out back
                 tomorrow.

                           ELWOOD
                 Yeah.

       Like Turner is talking about someone else.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                               109.
139   CONTINUED:                                                 139

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                       (whispering)
                   We got to get, man.

      Elwood looks at him now, digesting the "we".

                               ELWOOD
                   Blakeley.

                             TURNER (O.S.)
                       (whispering)
                   C'mon.

      Turner's hand reaches out and pulls Elwood up.


140   INT. NICKEL - HALLWAY - 1967 - NIGHT (N66)                 140

      Turner's POV watching Elwood painfully try to put his arm
      into the sleeve of the shirt that he arrived in Nickel at,
      his dehydrated body stiff and weak from the confinement.


141   INT. NICKEL - ANOTHER HALLWAY - 1967 - NIGHT (N66)         141

      Elwood's POV of Turner creeping in front of him, also dressed
      in his regular clothes.

      Turner moves stealthily past a warm light coming through the
      glazed panels in the door of an office. The voices of
      Spencer, Blakeley, Earl are recognizable among others. An OS
      poker game is going on in there. SOUND of cards being
      shuffled, chips moved around.

                             BLAKELEY (V.O.)
                   How you always know?

                             SPENCER (V.O.)
                   Well I don't know, do I? You play
                   the hand you're dealt. It's a
                   lesson Blakeley. I learnt a long
                   time ago.

                             BLAKELEY (V.O.)
                       (suspicious)
                   Well you sure get dealt queens
                   often. And aces.

                             EARL (V.O.)
                   They gonna shut us down?

      Turner peeps in.




                                                           (CONTINUED)
                                                             110.
141   CONTINUED:                                               141

                             SPENCER (V.O.)
                   I'll be god-damned if Tallahassee
                   tells me what to do. (to Earl) Open
                   the window, it's hot.

      SOUND of a chair being pushed back. Turner ducks down as
      Earl's shadow crosses the glazed window, then crosses back.

                             BLAKELEY (V.O.)
                   Move the button, let's go.

                             EARL (V.O.)
                   C'mon lady luck.

                             SPENCER (V.O.)
                   Didn't she leave you for another
                   man?

                             EARL (V.O.)
                   Shit's not funny guys, I ain't seen
                   my kids in six months.

                             BLAKELEY (V.O.)
                   Sounds lucky to me.

      Laughter.

                             SPENCER (V.O.)
                       (resumes poker)
                   It is, it is. I call.

      Elwood follows Turner past the door and around the corner.
      Sound of the their voices fades, grows distant.

                             BLAKELEY (V.O.)
                   Call.

                             EARL (V.O.)
                   Raise, ten.

                             SPENCER (V.O.)
                   Call.

                             BLAKELEY
                   Fold. (meaning the queen) And there
                   she is. Careful Earl.

                             ELWOOD (V.O.)
                       (whispering; close)
                   Turner, why?


142   OMITTED                                                  142
                                                             111.


143   EXT. HARDEE HOUSE - 1967 - NIGHT (N66)                   143

      Turner's POV, moving swiftly along the edge of the swimming
      pool in the back yard of the Hardee house, glancing back at
      Elwood. Moonlight creates a silky reflection on the pool
      water.

                          TURNER (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                Shit- they been running around like
                bugs, all these lowlifes. Spencer.
                Hardee. Jaime heard them talking
                about taking you out back. That was
                it. Tonight or not at all.

      The lights are on in the house, the Hardees have guests for
      dinner.

                          ELWOOD (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                Why you coming with me?

                          TURNER (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                They snatch you up in a hot minute,
                dumb as you are.

      The matching BICYCLES are still there leaning on the porch.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Elwood's POV as Turner gets on a bike and slowly pedals off,
      looking back over his shoulder.

                          ELWOOD (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                How long you been planning this?

                          TURNER (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                No outfoxing the dogs once they on
                your trail. Most you can do is get
                far away as you can. Put miles
                between you and them.

                                                        CUT TO:

      Turner's POV of Elwood struggling to get on the other bike,
      finally getting going.

                          ELWOOD (V.O.)
                    (whispering)
                Tallahassee?



                                                        (CONTINUED)
                                                                112.
143   CONTINUED:                                                  143

                             TURNER (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   Yeah, good. We can jump a train,
                   and then those dogs going to need
                   wings to catch us.

                             ELWOOD (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   They were going to kill me and bury
                   me out there?

                             TURNER (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   Sure as shit.


144   EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NEAR MARIANNA - DAWN INTO DAY (D67)     144

      Elwood's POV as they ride, Turner's ahead setting the pace.

                             ELWOOD (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   You got me out.

                                TURNER (V.O.)
                          (whispering)
                   Yup.

                              TURNER (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   Can you ride it? We got to get far
                   by sun up.

                             ELWOOD (V.O.)
                       (whispering)
                   I can do it.

      The sky is growing lighter in the East. The road is desolate
      until the SOUND of a vehicle comes up behind them fast.

                                ELWOOD (O.S.)
                          (calling out)
                   Car.

      They bike on. A red pick-up overtakes them and passes.

                                                         CUT TO:

      Turner's POV, watching the car drive off as its lights fade
      away. He looks back at Elwood who grins and doubles down.
      He's sturdy, impressive, as the sun starts to come up.
                                                               113.


144A   EXT. DIRT ROAD - CANES FIELDS - MORNING (D67)              144A

       Elwood's POV of Turner riding in front of him on a dirt road
       through the cane fields now, for awhile, this glorious sunny
       morning. Turner looks back smiling at Elwood, he laughs,
       joyful at the distance they've put between themselves and
       Nickel.

       Turner rides some more, glances back again, but this time his
       expression changes.

                                                         CUT TO:

       Turner's POV, he's looking at Elwood who is smiling, pushing
       hard, elated and looking straight at him. Behind Elwood he
       sees the Community Service Van flying toward them, closing
       in, headlights on, a cloud of dust in its wake.

                                                         CUT TO:

       Elwood's POV of Turner veering his bike off the roadside,
       dropping it and sprinting. Turner throws a look back at
       Elwood.

                           TURNER
                     (yelling)
                 El! Follow me!


144B   EXT. FURROWED CANE FIELD - MORNING [CONTINUOUS] (D67)      144B

       Turner's POV running into a field of scorched cane, blackened
       earth furrows, looking back to see Elwood pull his bike to
       the side of the road, drop it and run as the Community Van
       bears down. One of the scars on his legs has re-opened and
       bled through his pants as the van pulls over to a roaring
       stop behind him and both doors fly open.

                                                         CUT TO:

       Elwood's POV running across the furrows toward the woods
       beyond. SOUND of rifle shots.

                                                         CUT TO:

       Turner's POV as he turns to see Harper chasing fast, carrying
       a RIFLE. The Nickel Guard remains by the van.

                           TURNER (O.S.)
                 Faster! We got it! Run zig zag El,
                 run zig zag!

       Elwood pants, his mouth agape.



                                                         (CONTINUED)
                                                              114.
144B   CONTINUED:                                              144B

       Turner zigs-

       The first rifle shot misses.

       Turner zags- He looks back, Harper is holding his rifle like
       his daddy taught him. HARPER LOOKS RIGHT AT HIM, MEETING HIS
       GAZE. Then he smirks, and shifts the rifle barrel toward
       Elwood.

                                 TURNER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                           (anguished yell)
                    No!!

       Turner turns and stumbles, almost falling, just barely
       regaining his footing. BOOM! SOUND of a dull, distanced rifle
       shot. Turner doesn't look back, he runs.

                                                          CUT TO:

       Elwood's POV from where he is lying on the ground looking at
       the landscape beyond his outstretched arm, like he did in his
       backyard when he was a little boy. Elwood turns to look up at
       the sky and Harper walks into FRAME with his rifle slung
       across his shoulders.

                                                          CUT TO:

       Turner's POV, as he glances back instinctively, and sees
       Harper standing over Elwood with his rifle pointed down. He
       turns back around and runs for the woods. SOUND of two more
       muffled, distant rifle shots.

       Cue music: Ethiopiques, Tezata

       The music ramps up until 8 seconds into the track, when it is
       at full volume, yet still ramping internally. Turner's
       breathing and footfalls as he runs overlay the track, with
       music continuing over whole movement that follows...


145    OMITTED                                                     145


145A   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                        145A

       Archival footage of a prison escape and pursuit. White men in
       uniform find a hat, gather their bloodhounds, mount horses,
       and begin a chase. Bloodhounds run through a swampy forest.


145B   EXT. RURAL LANDSCAPE - FLORIDA - DUSK (D67)             145B

       Turner POV as he runs through a grassy landscape at dusk.


                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                              115.
145B   CONTINUED:                                              145B

       Various shots as he keeps running.


145C   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                        145C

       The prison escape chase scene continues... white men on
       horses galloping through wooded swampland, bloodhounds now
       onto a scent. Two 60s era military planes flying in
       formation. A bloodhound dog barking up a tree at the escapee-
       a black man who swats down at the dog.


146    OMITTED                                                  146


147    EXT. RURAL LANDSCAPE - FLORIDA - NIGHT (N67)             147

       Turner POV running, through the darkness, through the night,
       slowing down then starting up again... running straight out
       of himself.


148    OMITTED                                                  148


149    OMITTED                                                  149


150    MONTAGE - TURNER'S STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS               150

       A rapid series of (mainly) archival images (3 min duration):


A150   ARCHIVAL                                                A150

       NASA booster cameras of a space shuttle.


B150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                B150

       Faded 16mm B/W footage of Turner as preteen.


C150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                        C150

       B&W time-lapse MRI brain imaging scans.


D150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                        D150

       A Black woman stepping backward and gracefully stumbling over
       a picnic item on the ground.
                                                               116.


E150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         E150

       A disembodied black arm rapidly feeding license plates into
       an industrial license plate machine.


F150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         F150

       Empty seats in an electric chair death penalty viewing room.


G150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         G150

       A Black woman and shirtless Black man outside at a park lake,
       spontaneously moving in sync.


H150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         H150

       A shirtless young Black boy and Black man (same as in
       previous) heartily shaking hands.


I150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         I150

       A grandmother's gestural movement in a dimly lit kitchen.


J150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         J150

       NASA booster cameras of a space shuttle.


K150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         K150

       Electron microscope images of cells splitting, multiplying,
       consumed by others, alternating with the sequence of Black
       children below:


L150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                 L150

       A 10-image sequence (10x1 sec) CUs of Black children's eyes
       as they look straight into CAMERA, radiant, then look away,
       alternating with the above sequence of cells splitting.


M150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         M150

       Institutional-style footage of an old reform school for boys,
       Deep South. The boys are well-dressed and the classroom is
       orderly. It appears like the ideal setting for learning.
                                                              117.


N150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                           N150

       A large displacement, as if by large dozers, of red-hued
       earth.


X150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                   X150

       Black boys digging a pit that might be a grave. Red-hued
       earth.


O150   ARCHIVAL STILL                                             O150

       1970 Fun Town ad: still of a Black family on a rollercoaster
       ride, with a radio jingle (interrupting Ethiopiques briefly)
       clearly aimed at Black families now.


P150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                           P150

       Exterior, a big blinking bowling alley sign.


Q150   CREATED STILL                                              Q150

       Elwood's birth certificate.


R150   CREATED STILL                                              R150

       Elwood's school report card, straight-As.


S150   CREATED STILL                                              S150

       Adult Elwood's social security card.


T150   OMITTED                                                    T150


U150   CREATED STILL                                              U150

       The back of a photograph with `Elwood, 11 years old,
       Christmas' handwritten by Hattie on it.


V150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                           V150

       Christmas morning, Black boys opening packages under a tree.
       Baseball gloves, red sweaters or socks, bowties, boxes of tin
       army men... Boys from a nice house in a nice neighborhood...
                                                                 118.


W150    EXT. CURTIS HOME - FRENCHTOWN FL - 1967 -DAY (D-FF8)      W150

        [Continuation of Scene 132A.]

        Hattie has opened her front door, eyes welling, trembling,
        she backs slowly away, shaking her head, unravelling, fending
        off the news that is implied by the arrival of - we now
        realize, TURNER, at her front door... that Elwood is dead.


Y150    ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          Y150

        Interior of a railway boxcar: time-lapse of the monumental
        figure standing framed in the doorway of the outside, passing
        landscape.



Z150    CREATED ARCHIVAL                                          Z150

        The front page of The Register, a photo of Elwood protesting
        with Black youths outside the Tallahassee movie theatre
        playing The Ugly American and Invaders from Mars. Posters are
        visible from the films What's New Pussycat? and The Greatest
        Story Ever Told.


AA150   CREATED ARCHIVAL STILL                                   AA150

        The photo taken by the State photographer of Turner bending
        down in front of Harper in a framing designed to make him
        look subservient.


BB150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE (VIGNETTES)                     BB150


        INT. ADULT ELWOOD'S APARTMENT - 2002 - NYC

        POV through a camcorder of ADULT TURNER (52) sitting on a
        couch with a remote, flipping channels looking for a game.
        His wife Millie (OC) is looking through a new digital
        camcorder, trying it out.


        INT. ADULT ELWOOD'S APARTMENT - 2002 - NYC

        POV through a camcorder of ADULT TURNER (52) sleeping in bed.
        He awakens to find Millie filming him, she laughs.

        Adult Turner takes the camcorder and pulls her close,
        lovingly, as they look into the monitor at themselves.




                                                          (CONTINUED)
                                                                 119.
        CONTINUED:

                               ADULT TURNER
                         (laughing)
                     What do you see?

                               MILLIE
                         (laughing)
                     Two beautiful beings.

                               ADULT TURNER
                     I love you, Millie.

                               MILLIE
                         (laughing)
                     Turner-

        He aims the camera at both of them: heads together on the
        pillow, and his wife Millie (late 40s) comes into view, they
        are smiling together.


CC150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         CC150

        That moment of stillness just before a massive mudslide. Then
        the mudslide starts.


DD150   CREATED ARCHIVAL STILL                                   DD150

        The death notice for HARRIET JOHNSON (Hattie) in the
        Frenchtown newspaper. No photo.

        "Harriet Johnson (80) transitioned peacefully on December 25,
        1998, surrounded by her family in Frenchtown, FL. A
        participant, with her husband Montgomery Johnson, in the
        Tallahassee Bus Boycotts of the 1960s. Beloved mother of
        Evelyn Curtis and mother-in-law to Percy Curtis, pre-deceased
        by her only grandchild Elwood Curtis. Memorial donations may
        be made in Hattie's name to the Children's Defense Fund,
        Washington DC."


EE150   CREATED ARCHIVAL STILL                                   EE150

        Still of the young woman from the stairwell scene with
        Horizon Movers, who resembles a younger Hattie, at the
        precise moment Adult Elwood (Turner) sees her.


FF150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                         FF150

        A glass-bottom boat in a Florida lake.
                                                               120.


GG150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                       GG150

        A young Black man and woman swimming underwater in the same
        Florida lake, holding up a sign that says "Paradise" and
        smiling for the camera.


HH150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                       HH150

        A Black man in a swimsuit diving off a board into a Hampton
        Hotel pool in Florida, his family posed on lounge chairs
        watching and smiling.


II150   ARCHIVAL STILL                                         II150

        Still of a white hotel owner dumping bleach into a pool where
        a Black family is swimming.


JJ150   ARCHIVAL STILLS                                        JJ150

        Rapid series of stills from the Dozier School for Boys
        forensic report documenting unearthed items - belt bucket,
        marbles, buttons, penny, watch, etc.


KK150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                               KK150

        Created archival footage of the Nickel White House freshly
        painted and pristine.


LL150   CREATED ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                               LL150

        Time-lapse footage from the bottom of a freshly dug grave,
        looking up toward the night sky passing overhead.


MM150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                       MM150

        Wide shot of Florida orange groves.


NN150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                       NN150

        Oranges moving on an industrial conveyor belt.



OO150   CREATED ARCHIVAL STILL                                 OO150

        Promo photo of Spencer with a young Black Nickel boy on his
        shoulders, showcasing his fatherly benevolence.
                                                                  121.


PP150   ARCHIVAL STILL                                            PP150

        An illustrated postcard of a black boy being used as a bait
        to lure an alligator toward a white hunter with a rifle.


QQ150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE OR STILLS                                QQ150

        GPR images: actual bones and graves found in the ground at
        the Dozier School for Boys.


RR150   CREATED STILLS                                            RR150

        Family photo of Elwood with Hattie, his mother Evelyn, his
        father Percy.

        CU Evelyn, CU Percy, CU Hattie, CU Elwood from the same
        image.


SS150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          SS150

        A helicopter searching a devastated landscape after a
        mudslide.


TT150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          TT150

        A person being rescued by another person during a natural
        disaster.

        Music begins fading out, a light breathing becomes AUDIBLE.


UU150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          UU150

        NASA booster cameras of a space shuttle.


VV150   OMITTED                                                   VV150


WW150   ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE                                          WW150

        A grandmotherly woman, hugging her two children at either
        side of her, smiling into camera.

                                                      GO TO BLACK.

                            MILLIE (V.O.)
                  Turner, what are you going to do?
                  Are you really going to go?
                                                                  122.


YY150   EXT. NICKEL GROUNDS - 1967 - DAY                          YY150

        Turner POV looking up at a beautiful canopy of trees in the
        morning sunlight. Elwood enters frame above him and peers
        down and laughs. He walks around the top of what's clearly an
        open grave. He smiles and throws out his hand. Turner's hand
        comes up to meet his, and he clasps it tight to pull Turner
        out.

                                                       GO TO BLACK.




        Cue music:

        Sidney Poitier, singing Lost John / Long Gone acapella.

        As credits roll, transition to another song.




Nickel Boys
Writers : RaMell RossJoslyn BarnesColson Whitehead
Genres : Drama
User Comments








